+++
title = "Provence - South of France"
slug = "2004-05-10-provence-south-of-france"
published = 2004-05-10T00:32:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "people", "sleep", "road", "journey", "France \"Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur\" Provence \"Cote dAzur\"", "car", "dessert", "France", "food",]
+++
We have been thinking to visit South of France for a long time. Writing
the dairy for this trip is very unique as it had so many vivid events
one after another. We took a packaged deal with one of the travel agency
(Hotel and Bus with Sleeping-Berth)

  

After the event-full after-noon at Cite Perfecture we started at 9 P.M
from Paris. It was not a bad start till the first stop. Then, the inside
of the bus got converted to allow people to sleep; this is quite unique
unless you have traveled once in any of those I am not sure how to
explain. We did not know what it is either and tried to be polite when
people pushed us to go first. But when we got in we found almost all the
spaces were taken and there was no place left for us together.  

There was one typical old French lady who occupied the place for two &
did not wanted to adjust as there was one more place where another lady
also occupied for two and who called themselves sick and lucky (as they
came first). Few co-passengers did not like this and were vocal about
the same. Some suggested me to get down from the bus to show my protest.
Any way after the afternoon episode I was not much left to fight with.
So, we slept separately somehow and the night ended after all.

  

### Day-I

We reached Marseille on time; after keeping our bags in hotel we left
for exploring the second largest city of France.Â Marseille is a very
big ugly city; it does not care for your visit. We went to near by
island on a boat and a very great view of Marseille and Mediterranean
Sea, we visited Notre-Dam and Cathedral followed by a lunch.

  

We were told to meet at hotel at 4:30 for our next destination. But when
we reached hotel there was no one and hotel guy gave a key for our room.
After freshen up I asked them where are the rest of the passengers from
our group. He said coolly  -- ***Oh! They left. What!!!!!***

  

So I rushed back to room - told Pamela about the same. So, now after
several questions of her we realized that we were supposed to stay in
this Hotel for next 2 nights and the bus will come back. This was
highlight of Day two when after having a good time in Marseille we
missed the trip to "**Aix en Provence**"

  

### **Day-II**

After a good sleep we did make sure we do not miss any thing today. The
day was great, we saw "**Gorges du Verdon**" which cannot be compared to
Grand Canyon but it is great in its own. The bus ride to the same was
really great. On the way back we stopped at the lake and a small tourist
village.

  

Dinner on Easter Sunday: most of the restaurants were closed and the
open ones were very crowded. We got in to one place to try the Fish Soup
(Bouillabaisee) speciality of Marseille. So, after waiting a long time
waiter took the order and then after a big pause we got the starter; and
then again started the eternal wait for main course. There was another
couple right to us, who were also waiting for their turn just like us.
On left another couple was also bored to wait after drinking their water
and eating the bread pieces, as there was no one to take their order. It
almost took us an hour to get the main course. The scenario was even
much worst in the right table; the husband finished his meal with out
any bread and there was no food for the wife L till then. As French menu
consists of 4 courses so after main course it was to be followed by
salad ? but seeing their delay I decided to skip that & thought dessert
would be better to opt for ? but no luck; it was just the same. Lastly,
I decided to leave without taking my dessert. And, they were very prompt
while presenting the bill ? charged for the complete menu no concession
on their poor service and incomplete meal.

  

### DAY-III

  

We visited Arles, a place famous for its Roman Arena. There was
bullfight in the arena that we did not watched but there was Bull race
on the road before that which was quite memorable.

  

Then we moved to Baux-de-Provene a ruin castle visited by too many
tourists each year. But it was really worth going to the top. The
panoramic view of Provence rolling hills is great!  

From there we went to Avignon where Pope was moved for few centuries
before going back to Vatican. It has the big church an old bridge that
is broken in the middle.

  

Rest of the trip to Paris after dinner was event-less this time as we
were given the Premier Entry to the bus and was made sure by well
wishers that we sleep together that night.Well, Tuesday morning at 5:30
AM the journey ended which just reminded us to go back to Cite for our
long term visa.
