+++
title = "Barcelona"
slug = "2004-05-10-barcelona"
published = 2004-05-10T00:16:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "people", "Gaudi", "street", "beach", "Spain", "transport", "Barcelona", "ATM",]
+++
Barcelona, the capital of Catalonia, located on the north-east coast of
Spain. City is well connected with five metro lines other then public
transports like city railway and buses.

  

We started for Barcelona on early morning of Feb.28. It?s a city with
charming streets, busy with people and full of life. There is nowhere
better to make Barcelona's acquaintance than La Rambla, the bustling
avenue, famous for the vivid colors of its flower stalls ? is a perfect
place for a stroll. It?s the place where we had our hotel.

  

Barcelona being city of marvels comprising Gothic Quarter, the Ribera
and Raval districts, and famed for its historical monuments, narrow
streets and bohemian atmosphere. A wander through the maze of streets is
essential in order to understand the different periods in the history of
Barcelona and to admire its finest monuments: traces of the Roman wall
glimpsed between well-preserved Gothic buildings, the remains of the
Jewish Quarter. To explore this city more you need to walk a lot or
walking is best way - which we did on our first day of trip.

  

***Second day***, we went to Montjuic - the place where Olympic Games
were held in 1992. Pla?a d?espanya, MNAC, montjuic fountains?etc were
worth visiting. And it takes complete one day to visit that area.

In the Eixample district (heart of the city) most of the buildings,
built in unique style wereplanned in 1860, which constitutes a unique
model of European urbanplanning. The Sagrada Fam?lia, the Casa Batll?,
Casa Calvet and the Casa Mil? (also known as La Pedrera) are some
examples of this, which was work of Antoni Gaudi. Other then that there
are Casa lle? Morera, the Casa Amatller, Casa Serra, Casa Comalat, Casa
Thomas. Along with all these it was worth going to (Park G?ell) Gaudi?s
Park-, which we completed on 3rd day of our trip.

  

***On our last day*** at Barcelona we visited monastery, Palau de la
m?sica Catalana in Ribera district that is magnificent work of Lluis and
world?s one of the most beautiful concert hall. For which advance
booking is necessary as its 2 hrs. guided tour and no photography are
allowed insideL. And after lunch we went to Olympic village, which is
lined by a series of beaches and covers 4kms of a city where you can
enjoy the most modern amenities, these beaches are not very far form
Barcelona's historical and cultural landmarks - walkable distance.

  

Although trip was quite tiring because we walked a lot these 4 days in
order to explore as much as we can, but we enjoyed our stay there.
