+++
title = "Lisbon - Portugal"
slug = "2005-05-28-lisbon-portugal"
published = 2005-05-28T18:55:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "people", "street", "Lisbon", "journey", "taxi", "Belem tower", "sky", "road", "Golden Gate bridge of San Francisco", "drive", "Funicular", "Lisbon(Portugal)",]
+++
[![](../images/2005-05-28-lisbon-portugal-lisbon-tram.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/11231754105/in/set-72157638399106266)

  

Well the over night bus journey between Seville and Lisbon was not very
long one. We had an hour long stop as soon as we entered Portugal. The
road condition was good and we reached the Oriental Stop of Lisbon at
very early hours and the sky was still dark. From there it took another
20 minutes or so to reach the final destination near Zoological Garden.
We took a taxi and the ride was a short one to our hotel for only 6
Euros. The driver was nice and he was mentioning about the drought
Portugal is facing.

  

The Hotel (Novotel) was under renovation but the staff was kind enough
to get us a room at 4:30 in the morning although we had by mistake
booked for only one adult which we came to knew then and there.

  

  

After having rest for few hours we headed out from our hotel to Lisbon
downtown by metro. It was a very cloudy day. I was feeling heavy headed
and wanted to get some coffee.

  

[![](../images/2005-05-28-lisbon-portugal-castle-lis.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/11231863953/in/set-72157638399106266)After
walking in Rossio Square for a while we bought day pass for Lisbon
Trasport. The Metro system is run by the Government while the Bus, Tram
and trolleys are run by a company. Lisbon have lots of trams and it
seems like one of the attractions. Lisbon downtown is divided in three
major part Bairro Alto, Alfama and Baixa. The first two one are on hills
and the last one in the middle of the two.

  

It took us a while to figure out the starting point of Gloria funicular.
We took it to reach the top of Bairro Alto Neighborhood. The ride is
very small and full of tourists only. At the end of the 2/3 minute ride
the people who bought a single trip ticket was wondering is it really
worth or not.

  

Just getting out of the funicular on the right towards hill there is
park, from there we get very nice view of the other part of the city and
the river from there. There is also the ‘Porto’ wine collection place
just across the street. Start walking downhill towards Chiado. Chaido is
very happening place with lots of designer shops and places to east and
drink. We visited Sao Roque Church which is very beautiful with lots of
excellent tile and marble works inside; it was built in the glory days
of Portugal.

  

  

We had lunch in one of the restaurant of big mall in Baixa Chaido. After
that we took tram 28 for going to Alfama. This one is also a old tram
most likely built in 1930s and it passes Baixa district. We visited the
Caste of São Jorge. After spending a good time and taking the view of
Lisbon & River Tejo we took the same tram back to Chiado. In Chaido we
took Bica funicular which is like Gloria a old one but it is very stiff
and goes down to the river front. The buildings along side are very old
and in poor condition.

  

Once reaching the river front we took tram 15 towards Belem. There are
both new and old tram on this track. Belem is 5 KM outside of Lisbon. On
the way we saw 25th April Bridge, which just looks like Golden Gate
bridge of San Francisco. The reason may be both are built by the same
company. Belem tower and Monastery are the main attractions along with
the ‘Monument to the Discoveries’.Well it was a quite a long day and we
headed back to Chiado for dinner and then to Hotel.
