+++
title = "Few books"
slug = "2006-09-30-few-books"
published = 2006-09-30T12:10:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Mira Nair", "My Diary", "people", "market", "modern india", "A. P. J. Abdul Kalam", "Abdul Kalam", "ATM", "food", "reading", "writer", "drive", "car", "Dan Brown", "monsoon", "cart", "Glass Palace", "rain",]
+++
Being in vacation and doing nothing much whole day I am left with lots
of free time to read. It is great way to pass quality time with rain and
heat where nothing interests me outdoor. I already finished few books in
last 3 weeks.

Starting with, **Dan Brown**’s trash ‘**Angel & Demon**’ and ‘**Digital
Fortress**’. Well these are same old horrible as writing and story line
is similar to “**Da Vinci Code**”. Well if you have read and liked it
then I am sorry to hurt your feelings ?. Reading those 3 books it seems
Mr. Brown wanted to cash quickly the old “James Bond” style. In each of
his book there is a very glamorous sexy female character in his book.
The less I write about this female character I do justice to them.

A hollow story set in Europe which is a very far away country for his
native readers. Yes! To most Americans, Europe is so different - people
speak different languages as you cross few hundred miles and every
things change from food to culture and above all human features also
changes. It is not same as that of America where you cross 3 different
time zones and still have the same treatments. This way, when he puts
his characters and plots in twisted alleys of old cities of Europe every
one takes them for real.

He really does not know nor do research for his subject matter and end
up using
“[VLSI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Very-large-scale_integration)” and
“[PGP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PGP)” in same breath in Digital
Fortress. Can someone please explain him what is super computer or
parallel computing is ;) or rather how computer works has he been to any
Data-centers I have so many basic questions for him. I am sure the
similar can be said about others related topic like when he drives car
through [Tuileries
Garden](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/var/albums/paris/parks/garden-tuileries.jpg)
from
[Louvre](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/paris/museum/louvre) in
a [smart
car](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/paris/mixed3/smartcar) in
Da Vinci Code which is set in Paris,

Well enough of Dan Brown I am sure his book will loose their places in
book stores as readers figure out about them. It is possible in today’s
literary world to make some thing best seller in the same way Hollywood
makes “Charlie’s Angels” a hit with 17 screen writers and it is called –
“Marketing”.

Then I read two wonderful books one is ‘**The Glass Palace**’ by
**Amitav Ghosh** about Indian subcontinent in early last century. This
is a superb book and all the characters and the settings are excellent.
The time spans three generations in the vast continent from Ratnagiri in
western coast of India to Malay. I found it very touchy; may be as my
ancestors were from a part of land which missed by mere 6 kilometers to
be included by in India by map-drawers.

Now, since I know few occidental people who do not understand why an
Indian Maharaja ordered ‘Cartier’ for a diamond necklace. The person
asking the question was surely thinking these Indian feudal lords were
just sucking breads and butters of poor. For them this book might be an
eye opener as it portray Indian sub-continent as a land of opportunities
and wealth. Though I am not a supporter of any Maharaja but I strongly
believe the westerners did more worst things to whole world for their
own profits. And even today they think and believe single mindedly
Western World is best but they miss the fine point that there was
nothing before industrial revolutions in Europe.

The next book is “**Wings of Fire**” by “**Avul Pakir Jainulabdeen Abdul
Kalam**”. This book should not need any introductions but for those it
sounds unknown- it is an Autobiography of India’s current President,
father of Indian rockets and missiles. I loved this book and felt dry
throats and wet eye as he along with others hundreds of Indian worked
hard to give us the technologies and result which makes common Indians
to be proud of their success. And best of all it is indigenous :D

There are so many parts of this book which I wish gets carried each day
by common Indian like me and others to make INDIA proud. If religious
and social harmony as we find in this book would have existed in today’s
India we might have prospered more. As an engineer I do understand the
book is written by another person of same trade as it lacks wit and
sharpness of successful memoir. There is mention of lots of
abbreviations like PERT charts but for common people it does not make
any sense. Similarly, there are some abbreviations which does not even
bring any bell to me.

If this memoir is rewritten by a professional with all those beautiful
poems and wonderful events from APJA.Kalam’s own diary it can be Geeta
for modern India.

Well other than these four books I read 2 more books by Chetan Bhagat;
one about campus life in India’s most prestigious Engineering Institute
IIT and other one on the life of young Indians as they work in nights
for the booming BPO or most commonly known as Call-Centers. Well both
the books are OK. I can not say them they are bad as they kept me glued
till last but failed to mark their place in my mind in long run when I
was finished with them. It is written in a modern way like Mira Nair
unfolds the story of Monsoon Wedding with hope that people other than
Indian origin will also find it interesting.
