+++
title = "Sikkim - Gangtok"
slug = "2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok"
published = 2006-05-21T16:34:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "street", "Nathu La", "journey", "Tibet", "Tsomgo Lake", "Baba Harbhajan Singh Memorial", "moon", "taxi", "road", "Rumtek Monastery", "Gangtok", "drive", "Sikkim", "car", "Teesta River", "eastern himalayas", "siliguri",]
+++
My current home in India is **Siliguri**, north of West Bengal may not
be the most alluring for tourist destinations. But it is the most
important city in the entire Eastern Himalayas due to its geographical
location. As city is unabashedly an industrial centre and gateway to
seven sisters of North-East along with Sikkim & eastern part of Nepal.
My parents moved here ten years back and by that time I had just started
my career; never had ample holidays to explore any thing around. Always
I used to be too tired to get out of home and end up with novels and old
music. But this was for the first time I did take days out to visit
**Gangtok**.

  
Though journey was not very memorable or different than that of those I
had while growing up in North-East region except that Pamela was with me
this time. Traveling by Jeep through those narrow winding roads is an
experience in itself where our co-passengers thought that we are going
for honeymoon trip. The drive was very scenic with Teesta River flowing
all the way. The forested hills are still green but truly there is
continuous deforestation going on for either cultivation or smuggling
woods.  
  

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok-11232570226_7b3d02fabc_m.jpg)](../images/2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok-11232570226_7b3d02fabc_m.jpg)

We reached Gangtok after midday and the Taxi Stand was the most active
part of the city like any other small or hill town in North-East. There
are too many touts to rob you. If you travel light and are able to carry
your luggage yourself you can avoid them. We stayed in a ITDC hotel near
to M.G.Marg where we had our lunch at its expensive restaurant. Then we
went out for booking our trips for sightseeing & daytrip for next 2
days. Being a tourist place it seems everyone wants to rob so you need
to have good negotiating skill & make sure what you need you get the
same. After bargaining we were able to book our trips for next 2 days.
Then from there we went to the Government **Institute of Cottage
Industries** (also called the Directorate of Handicrafts and Handloom)
which promotes and teaches the ancient crafts of Sikkim (like painting,
mask making, weaving, wood carving) to keep them alive. It is located at
zero point, few km uphill from the main Gangtok town.  
  

  

**Day II**, we had **Allu paratha** as breakfast early morning near to
Bus stop at Agarwal restaurant & got the same packed for the route also.
Then we headed towards our agency. Indians are famous for their IST so
our co-passengers. After waiting a while for them to join we started our
trip to Tsomgo Lake.

**Tsomgo Lake** is situated at an altitude of 12,310 ft on
Gangtok-Nathula highway. Just few kilometers away from *Indo-China
border*. This road also continues to Lasa, Tibet. Drive to that region
is again very different with snow capped mountains & this whole belt is
undertaken by Indian military. *Salute to our Indian army who are taking
pain to guard those borders to make our life easy & peaceful.* Really I
wonder sometimes how they are struggling there to earn their meal in
those extreme cold regions far from there near one.

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok-11232568466_74c180be12_m.jpg)](../images/2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok-11232568466_74c180be12_m.jpg)

On reaching Tsomgo lake (pronounced as Changu Lake which means source of
lake) we hired snow boots as all the travel agents take their customers
to respective brothers stall for hiring jackets, snow boots and
water-proof boots. Because of the high altitude heavy woolens are
required which we already had.

From there we went immediately to **Baba Harbhajan Singh Memorial**
which lies between **Nathula-Jelepla** pass which is at still more
higher altitude of around 13,450ft. Actually, it is built in memory of a
sepoy of 23rd Punjab regiment. It seems after few days of his missing he
appeared in the dreams of his fellow comrades & expressed a desire that
monument be built in his memory. Now it has acquired a statue of a
pilgrimage, being Sunday there was **langar** (free meals served after
Sikh services) offered by Indian Army. After one hour stay we came down
to Changu Lake.

  
Weather was getting worse. Tea, snacks & film rolls are available at the
dozen of temporary stalls near the lake. But there is no facility of
accommodation or proper toilet for the tourist. Rides on yaks and mules
are also offered which was worthless to enjoy for Pamela at that
temperature.

In the evening, we walked on the main street of M.G.Marg which is
normally closed for all vehicles from 5 to 9 PM. Looked for budget
restaurant for our dinner; we found one and also found a long queue
waiting for their turn. The wait was delightful.  
  

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok-11232544055_25e3898bb8_m.jpg)](../images/2006-05-21-sikkim-gangtok-11232544055_25e3898bb8_m.jpg)**Day
III** started for us early morning as we wanted to return to Siliguri
ASAP. We started our sightseeing activity from **Rumtek monastery**
(largest monastery of Sikkim) and ended with exotic **orchid** show
along with **Enchey monastery**, **Do-drul stupa**.

Gangtok is a blend of the traditional and modern, where modern concrete
multi-storied structures clings to the hillside along with stupas and
monasteries; buddhist prayer flags flutter with the mountain breeze;
young college girls in trendy dresses while elderly matrons clad in
traditional 'bakus' and lamas in colorful maroon.  
  

> Now, looking forward to travel to North Sikkim some day which we heard
> is more beautiful with valley of flowers and lakes to explore.
