+++
title = "Mount Jungfraujoch - 23rd June"
slug = "2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june"
published = 2006-07-16T15:40:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "sleep", "picture", "jungfrau", "journey", "cog-wheel train", "Swiss", "car", "interlaken", "food", "rain",]
+++
### Top of Europe

Today we woke up very early as to move towards our next destination
Interlaken (means between two lakes). I immediately peered out the
window to check out what the weather was like. I was very concerned
about our trip to Mt. Jungfrau. But to me it seems to be a perfect day.
Santanu was bit hesitant as it was cloudy & gloomy all the way while
coming down from Mt. Rigi. He rather mentioned it appeared to be nice
down at the bottom of the mountain, nothing was promised way up top.
Since, the journey to Interlaken takes around 3 hours by train so we
left Zurich around 7AM leaving our host still sleeping.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june-jungfraujoch-bahn.jpg)](../images/2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june-jungfraujoch-bahn.jpg)

Anywayz, at Interlaken we already had a booking for an apartment hotel
which was cheap, cozy with all kitchen amenities in the room; that means
we can cook our own food if we want. So, we first went to our
apartment-hotel to keep our luggage .Then headed to Mount Jungfrau- top
of Europe.

  

  
In Switzerland prices are always astronomical so ticket to Jungfrau was
no exception. Like always we carried “take-away” lunch before boarding
the train. After reaching Lauterbrunnen from Interlaken we were to
change and take cog-wheel train to reach to Kleine-Scheidegg a tiny,
isolated resort surrounded by vertiginous scenery. In a short time, as
we ascended, the villages below were barely visible. The presence of
snow gradually increased, while the temperature gradually decreased.

  
From Kleine-Scheidegg we changed to the Jungfraubahn, another train,
which tunnels straight into the rock of the Eiger. Stopping briefly for
panoramic picture; looking at glacier from a rock window to say in
simple words. This ride up is by world's longest existing cog-rail and
quite extraordinary. I assume it is among the most fascinating scenery
in the world we have ever seen.  
  

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june-jungfraujoch-1.jpg)](../images/2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june-jungfraujoch-1.jpg)

There were several things to visit like ice palace and experience the
breathtaking panoramic view from the Sphinx Observation Terrace
overlooking the Aletsch Glacier (Europe's longest glacier). After
getting down from the train we first went to Swiss-sphinx. It was the
highest point of the whole place. We went outside onto the observation
deck and relished the views. As parts of the observation deck extended
past the building, the floor beneath us was made up of metal grates.
Looking down, it was making me feel giddy Santanu was bold enough to
take me around the whole building. Day was really bright and sunny as if
meant for taking pictures so throughout whole trip we took plenty of
photos.  
  

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june-ice-palace.jpg)](../images/2006-07-16-mount-jungfraujoch-23rd-june-ice-palace.jpg)

From there we went to ice palace. This consisted of basically an
underground ice sculpture exhibition. Everything was ice; the ceilings,
the walls and even the floors. Something really amazing. From there we
went to snow where one can slide or do James Bond stuns on a ropeway.

The trip to Mt. Jungfrau will undoubtedly remain among the first things
we think back on. What a difference some nice weather made for us that
day. After spending few hours we descended via Grindelwald to
Interlaken.
