+++
title = "W questions of Indian life"
slug = "2007-05-02-w-questions-of-indian-life"
published = 2007-05-02T01:03:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "festival", "My Diary", "people", "road", "middle class", "ranting", "indian life", "rain",]
+++
In India, life of middle class is different compared to occidental
culture. There is a vast population of middle class in India and within
middle class there are three distinct sub-divisions - **“lower
middleclass”, “middle middleclass”** and **“higher middleclass”**.
Comprehending the complexities of Indian society is not that easy.
Though there are variations in socio-economic life within these three
but one thing is common between all of them - *everyone is curious to
know whatz happening in others life despite of their own busy life*. And
they do pose **what, why, when and where** to quench their thirst.

Curiosity starts with birth of a child and has no ends. The initial
round of questions like does your child walks; has he started speaking,
whom does he resembles? As he/she grows a bit question changes its color
– has he started going to school, then next question will be in a trice
how he is in studies; does he comes first in class (as if all parents
were merit holders). Apart from that of course there are questions
related to his health, extra curricular activities which he has been
thrown into.

Few more years, child reaches his teenage where he is being again quized
with different set of questions how much percentage did he scored in
high school and competitive exams; this is the most difficult phase as
some of those questions remains hunted in the young mind for rest of
his/her life.

Now related to the **“stream”** he has opted for; child is categorized -
if science particularly with **maths** then good considered having
bright future in engineering if with bio then mediocre. Next in line
comes **commerce**, then with **arts** and last but not least **home
science and others** where student is considered good for nothing no
matter even if he has got gold medal.

As soon as he/she enters the new stage of his/her life next questions
are already ready to be asked - does he have a job? If yes, where? If
it’s abroad then– oh now you will have dollars /euros/pounds in your
bank no matter if he/she is going to Timbuktu. What do you have to worry
in life for? (as you have a kid abroad). No need to worry about money?
Your kid is gonna be an NRI soon.

Now as child reaches marriageable age particularly a girl series of
question are asked in a manner that it becomes nightmare for both
parents and child. There will be proposal for alliance from any one and
as a girl’s parent you are supposed to be very gentle and calm (no
matter how much they pinch you). Once he/she gets married the very next
instantaneous query has to be what about family planning; are not you
going to have baby as if others are going to look after the baby. Once
the baby arrives to this wonderful earth ……**life cycle of same set of
questions repeats endlessly**.

Why we can’t refrain ourselves from asking these questions to others
which might hurt someone unintentionally. Really, certain times its so
disgusting. Or are these questions which keep us binding with each-other
to some extent where millions of people live amidst cacophony--roaring
vehicles, surging crowds, jammed apartment buildings, busy commercial
establishments, loudspeakers, blaring movie tunes--while breathing the
poisons of industrial and automotive pollution.

Are these those questions where Indians believe in sharing happiness and
sorrow; where a festival or a celebration is never constrained to a
family or home. Or is it an answer to beauty of Indians lies in **spirit
of tolerance**.
