+++
title = "Wednesday- Best of all weekdays"
slug = "2007-02-07-wednesday-best-of-all-weekdays"
published = 2007-02-07T16:30:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "My Diary", "desserts", "people", "street", "nap", "journey", "Bombay", "cab", "festival", "mumbai", "writer", "local train", "south mumbai", "dessert", "weekend", "rain",]
+++
From Sunday evening I keep waiting for middle of week i.e., Wednesday as
next weekend looks too far to me. If there is any special occasion
planned for Wednesday evening it really cheers me up. On last Wednesday
it just happened that Pamela called me at work saying that she is going
to come to VT (CST) all by herself boarding a local train (…..for first
time).Thanks to Meher for encouraging Pamela to come over in the first
place.

Well, Pamela did panic at last part of her journey as she was all alone
in the wagon with two transsexuals sitting beside her. Moreover, on not
seeing me at VT she vented her anger on me over phone as I was to meet
her there. Its true, that I somehow always get entangled in work or some
urgent phone call when ever I need to be on time to meet her. On top of
it her phone battery was also running low. Somehow we did meet up
without much problem and I am not that good writer to juice up that
meeting. Anywayz, as per plan we met Meher in front of GPO and headed to
Kala- Ghoda via Cab.

  

**Kala-Ghoda** is crescent shaped plaza nestled around an array of
heritage buildings such as Elephantine College, the David Sassoon
Library and the Watson Hotel. It is named after a statue which is long
gone now of King Edward VII astride a black horse. This plaza is around
South Mumbai which is fast emerging as the arts hub of downtown Bombay.
Meher being born and brought up in south Mumbai she knows streets like
back side of her palm. After walking across all those gorgeous office
buildings from bygone years we reached Horniman Circle Park where French
rock band “**Merzhin**” was to perform for the Kala-Ghoda festival
organized by **Alliance Française**, Mumbai.. This festival actually
takes place inorder to improve the existing infrastructure of the area
and giving it a distinct identity as Mumbai's art district. And this
festival basically brings together work from various fields like arts,
theater, film, music, literature, dance, heritage walks, exhibitions,
children's events offering an interactive cultural mélange for
Mumbaites.

Anyway, the introduction from the Director was very "French" as he
mentioned *if you want a good life learn French.* What a snobbish French
way of welcoming audience. Point to be shared is - a very different
experience as we enjoyed the concert sitting on chairs ;) ...hmm a rock
concert and sitting!!! The band was good and they tried their best to
get people rocking but it did not work after all Indians..... that too
on Wednesday evening.

  

From there after an hour we left for dinner walking two blocks we found
ourself in front of **Café Mocambo**. It has two levels of seating.; the
interior is decent but not stunning. The menu is mostly continental and
parsi with lots of Pasta dishes to choose from. Other then that lamb,
steak and lasagna are also available. They have standard fridge
displaying yummy desserts - really yummy! Many *phirangis* also hang out
here.
