+++
title = "Calamity of Mid life & middle class"
slug = "2007-10-17-calamity-of-mid-life-middle-class"
published = 2007-10-17T16:38:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "My Diary", "people", "chit chat", "market", "middle class", "mumbai", "drive", "local train", "ranting", "indian life", "car", "weekend", "rain",]
+++
It is impossible not to eavesdrop when people are having a loud
conversation on phone in Mumbai's life line - local train.

  

Unlike other days today morning, was special one which is worth
describing.

  

A guy gets in; stands next to me and elbows me to make his room and
starts chatting over mobile (so how it goes....).

  

**“Sorry yaar (friend) had to switch off the mobile as train was coming
in; you know how much rush is there nowadays.”**

  

As if there was less rush in last 20 years in Mumbai local. Well, from
his conversation I figured out on other side will be another mid-life
middle class male on the call. After few lines of small chit-chat the
big one comes (which inspired me to write this blog).

  

**“Oh he (some friend)! he is still in hospital on dialysis and doctor
says it will take another two weeks to recover.”**

  

Oh God! that is alarming that friend can be just like me another middle
aged middle class. And now you read and hear everyday about people as
young in twenties are getting heart attack. Well, no doubt life is
stressful but we Indians make it even harder with our own karma, as we
poke our nose in every matter, as well in others matter; worrying about
them, giving constant stream of unsolicited advice is part of our
nature.

  

**“Not sure what went wrong, Doctor says due to his high blood pressure
his kidney is not functioning properly. He is having heavy loss of
protein in the urine”**

  

Indeed too sad conversation, but then he admits **"what more to say**,
**even we do n't know 2% of our body and how it works; we only go to
hospital when sick”**.

  

Not sure how to say how true it is, in India there is no conception of
prevention of diseases, people get really sick spends money (according
to their capacity) as most don’t even have medical insurance and then
one final day all is over. And worst of all, relatives, friends and
bystanders never try to take precaution on the same for themselves as
all think that it will not happen to them **it only happens to others**.

  

Now the sunny side of the conversation.

  

**“I forgot to tell you, I got a Toyota Corolla recently; a good bargain
for a perfect second hand, you must come one weekend we will go for a
long drive to Pune.”**

  

It is mandatory to announce, you got a good deal to show your acumen as
buyer. I love to hear this stuff as I am sure both guys will never make
it in their life, as their wives will never allow that bachelor party to
happen. Unlike west or even far-east where it is common to have guys
having evening-out after work; it virtually doesn't exist in India yet.
As Indian guys has too many balls to juggle with. If you think I am
making it sound too boring, the reason is very simple as myself I
haven't yet met a person like that.

  

Well then the conversation continued with natural stuff like kid’s
education, stock market, weather and boss at work. By that time his stop
was coming so he cuts the call quite abruptly. For 90% Indians, phone
attic does not require a formal hello or bye, conversation starts and
ends – cradles down – thats simple.

  

May be just like writing no concluding paragraph. Well, this is a [good
link on our kidney](http://www.healthsquare.com/fgpd/fg4ch18.htm); I
will encourage to read the same, may be it increase that 2% knowledge on
human body; high time to take care of ourselves with less medication and
having more of stressfree life.
