+++
title = "Viva Goa - Day 3"
slug = "2007-04-16-viva-goa-day-3"
published = 2007-04-16T02:03:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Shantadurga", "people", "picture", "nap", "durg", "beach", "Bom Jesus Basilica", "car", "Goa", "Miramar beach", "food",]
+++
We opted for package tour with our hotel stay, so our hotel had arranged
for two day sightseeing South Goa with river cruise and North Goa. We
opted for South Goa to start with.

Left hotel around 9 at Indian Stretchable Time after breakfast in a
non-AC bus accompanied by one local guide. The itinerary included
Dona-Paula (bypass Miramar beach). Old Goa churches-Bom Jesus Basilica
and se cathedral along with two temples Mangueshi and shantadurga
dedicated to Shiva and shantadurga (goddess of Peace), visit to
Ancestral Goa/old Portuguese house and Colva beach. To wrap it up there
is river cruise at the end.

Actually, this kind of package are good way of getting around Goa in
short-time. **It seems they are more appealing to Indian tourists
wishing to combine peek at all top sights with the whistle-stop tour.**
Sometimes they include certain places inland that you wouldn’t otherwise
consider visiting.

Anywayz, Colva beach was not even attractive to us though it is an
oldest and largest fishing beach. There were international tourists
marinating in the sun and overcrowded domestic visitors paddling. Beach
front is dismal as stench of drying fish waft from near-by village.

![](../images/2007-04-16-viva-goa-day-3-boat-cruise-goa.jpg)

River cruise on Mandavi was one hour trip over crowed with mostly Indian
tourists. Professional troupes perform the Dekni Temple Dance, the Fugdi
Dance and the Corredinho Dance with live music. You can shake your leg
too as it will tempt you to dance to their beats. They do try hard to
entertain but no chance to glimpse the Sun as it sets in Arabian Sea.
Its pity that this boat company makes sure you can not view the sun-set
as there is a big backdrop on west to hide Sun from you. May be they do
it on purpose to make sure everyone is seated and not leaning on side of
the boat to take picture of golden ball as it goes down.

<a href="http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2007/goa/mixed/whole-cashew-fruit" class="snap_nopreview"><img src="../images/2007-04-16-viva-goa-day-3-cashew.jpg" /></a>

Other then this they took us to souvenir shop (where they get
commission)- i.e., one souvenir at least visitor always carries home
from his holidays in Goa are cashew nuts, spices and wine. Cashew trees
abound the Goan hillsides. The flowering in January leads to luscious,
brilliantly coloured fruit in March, April and early May. It is then
plucked, while the apple is used in the process of producing "Feni"
(Goan speciality) and the nuts are roasted for consumption. Here locally
produced wines and beer are cheaper than anywhere in the country. Big
percentage of tourist to Goa are **men from other parts of India who
come to Goa as an escape from moral confines of life at home.**

Disadvantage of this kind of package trips are they don’t give enough
time where they should actually give and secondly you cannot have taste
of Goa or in other words you don’t have much choice for restaurants as
they take tourists to such a remote part where only one restaurant will
be there with awful food and you end up eating those as you don’t have
alternative. In short, we are the people who want to explore more of the
place, know about the culture, food, enjoy the serenity, nature’s
landscape and all. So, this kind of packages are not meant for us. And
we decided not to opt for the North Goa trip.
