+++
title = "A day break - Harihareshwar"
slug = "2007-02-18-a-day-break-harihareshwar"
published = 2007-02-18T03:06:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Harihareshwar", "Maharashtra", "Geetanjali rest house", "nap", "beach", "National Highway 17", "sky", "food", "road", "mumbai", "drive", "MTDC canteen", "car", "weekend",]
+++
After moving from Paris, we had been planning to take a trip somewhere
out of Mumbai. We even bought a Travel book on India to explore more our
own motherland. But with time and circumstances our plan didn’t got
executed. At last, after longtime we took a day break on last weekend
when Santanu came to know at last moment about his holiday on **Maha
Shivratri**. Since it was last moment plan we could only make for one
night stay.

<a href="http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2007/hari" class="snap_nopreview" title="Harihareshwar Beach"><img src="../images/2007-02-18-a-day-break-harihareshwar-harihareshwar-beach.jpg" /></a>

Harihareshwar is a small town with palm-lined beach known for pilgrimage
centre-Kalbhairav (Shiva) temple and its ideal beach resort of MTDC.
This beach is black due to the rock particles from rocky shores being
mixed into the sand. The beauty of the place is its serenity (far off
from city’s buzz) and lack of commercialization unlike other tourist
spots Goa or Kovalam. Beach actually splits in two parts north and
south.

The southern beach is where resort is located facing the sea which
offers not only rooms but also tents and cottages in a bamboo grove with
AC. But it needs booking well in advance. We repented for not making it
before hand so we had to stay in “Geetanjali rest house” as paying guest
in just 400 Rs a night. We had our lunch and dinner at MTDC canteen as
the view of the sea through the green is refreshing sight for mind and
soul. There are chairs placed under thatched roof where one can have
meal under a starlit sky with a sweeping view of the bay and some lit-up
boats bobbing out on the sea. This side of beach is mostly deserted
compared to that of northern beach. Though our host asked us to have
food with them called as “*gharguthis*” with costal flavor ( Konkani
meals) – simple but hygienic at same time ; we denied politely as they
were having fast for Shivratri so we didn’t wanted to stress them.

The northern side is where temple is. It’s that side where one can see
stunning sunset we lounge there to watch red ball taking a plunge in the
blue roaring Arabian ocean. This roaring sound of restless waves dashing
against the rocky shore is something to watch for hours. Its something
cannot be explained in words.

Next day we started early for Shrivardhan 15kms away which is famous for
its beach, temple and historic monuments. Its home town and birth place
of **Peshwa Balaji Vishwanath** (founder of peshwas) but beach is not
that attractive or well maintained compared to that of Harihareshwar.

[![](../images/2007-02-18-a-day-break-harihareshwar-indica.jpg)](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2006/bombay/apt/indica "Our Car")

A lovely drive on NH-17 except bumpy roads starting from Mangaon to
Mhasla ahead past till junction where it splits into Srivardhan and
Harihareshwar. Though it was a short stay but will last in memory for
long time. Moreover this was first time after coming to India Santanu
drove all the way 170 kms from Kharghar for 4 1/2 hrs at stretch. While
coming back we took halt en route near Mangaon to get some fresh veggies
and brunch (Resort Open Umbrella).

At end Santanu regretted for not learning stick-shift before then we
could have explored France more.
