+++
title = "O Krishna!!!"
slug = "2007-09-04-o-krishna"
published = 2007-09-04T02:04:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "festival", "krishna", "road", "nap", "mumbai", "Bombay", "anniversary", "idol", "curd",]
+++
Celebrating the birth anniversary of **blue boy** with peacock feather
in his wreath,  
flute in one hand and making efforts to steal pots of butter,
butter-milk or dahi (curd); well known for his mischievous acts and
playing pranks on gopis (cow herding girls).

Based on his stealing efforts there is a very popular ceremony called
**dahi-handi** celebrated with lot of enthusiasm and glee on this day or
on the second day of **Janmashtami**. It is an enactment of Lord
Krishna’s efforts to steal butter from **Matka (earthen pot)** suspended
from the ceiling. It is not the rituals, customs and traditions that
change over the time but the celebration styles and perspectives that
become contemporary. Now a days this ceremony has taken its shape in
form of money making competition participated by various groups
“**govinda**” or “**gopalas**” of localities. Group which succeds in
breaking pot gets hefty rewards.

Dahi Handi is celebrated with fervor, especially in the twin cities of
Mathura - Vrindavan, Dwarka and Mumbai. In Mumbai with yelling of ‘*Ala
re ala, Govinda ala*‘ this ceremony cum competition starts. Now,
state-government is thinking on projecting this festival in-order to
attract tourists. Basically, an earthen pot containing a mixture of
milk, dry fruits, ghee is hung around 20-30 feet high in the air with
the help of a rope. Enthusiastic young men (now women group), form a
human pyramid by standing one on top of the other and tries to break the
pot. Onlookers throw waters on the young men in order to prevent them
from breaking the pot. Devotees believe that the broken pieces of
earthen pot will keep away negative powers from their homes. Thus,
rejoicing in lords glory…. ***Bol Hari*** !!!
