+++
title = "Hearty Healthy"
slug = "2007-05-30-hearty-healthy"
published = 2007-05-30T03:07:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "mishti dahi", "people", "raita", "chocolate", "Bon Appetite", "car", "dessert", "curd", "food", "rain", "yoghurt",]
+++
It’s too hot and humid with power failure I was sweating like a hell.
Though just few minutes before I took my shower. Having my last portion
of lunch I was searching desperately for something in my fridge but
actually I forgot to buy one. My all time favourite item which I can
even take truckload if needed in any form. It is generally considered to
cool the body in tropical climates.

I don’t know how and when exactly I developed taste for it. One of my
favourite childhood food item was a heaping spoonful of it. I’d lick it
like a lollipop until all traces of thick delectable were gone. As I got
older, I use to mix it with portion of vegetable curry(s) as well
lentils given to me beside the last course. Now also I regularly indulge
and make sure to have it at last after two main meals. Without that it’s
something incomplete for me. I hope you guessed it by now… yes, I am
talking about **yogurt** known for its characteristic taste and
consistency.

  

Being born and brought up in cosmopolitan town had known taste of India
from my childhood. Due to the employment opportunities created by the
Bhilai Steel Plant, people from all over the country flock here and the
culture here provides a scintillating example of **"Unity in
Diversity"**.

  

We had a south Indian neighbour when I was a child. I used to love
auntie’s food over my mom despite she tried her best to make best food
which I never appreciated. Like the proverb says **“ghar ki murgi daal
barabar”** *(Self possessions are always undermined and other's
possessions seem better).* The memory still brings forth strong emotions
when I think of it. I have one memory of eating this dish called
**Curd-rice** as a small kid which Auntie used to prepare by mixing curd
and rice with pinch of salt to taste if yogurt is bit tangy. For them it
is common practice to finish any meal with curd rice. While our other
neighbour was from North, so often used to have **Raita** - a special
preparation with yogurt; normally served chilled. Though there are lot
of variation in raita of which boondi is most common. Vegetable Raita
involves adding grated cucumber and mint paste or using tomato, cucumber
and onion raitas or diced carrots. Sometimes tempering it with mustard
seeds, cumin seeds, curry leaves, channa & urad daal with pinch of
asafoetida. Actually, Raita is good foil for spicy North Indian dishes
like parathas, tandoori chicken, etc.

  

Now being born in **bongo** family we have **Misti doi** a thick
sweetened yogurt which taste as sweet as pudding which is served and
sold in earthern pot. Presently staying in western part, **Shrikhand**
is taken in form of dessert made from strained curd. A soft muslin cloth
is tied up and hung to drain all the water for a few hours from the
curd. Sugar, salt, saffron, cardamom, diced fruit, raisins, and nuts are
then added for its taste.

  

Apart from all these, curd is widely prepared at home where it has an
important place in traditional cuisine. It can be made from a small
amount of store-bought, plain, freshly cultured yogurt by adding
lukewarm milk thoroughly. The quality of curd depends on the starter
used. The time taken to curdle varies with the seasons taking less than
3 hours in hot weather and up to 10 hours in cold weather.

  

During our stay at Europe I use to wonder seeing one complete row on
umpteen varieties of yogurt from fat-free to bio-organic in super-store.
Not only natural and unflavoured yogurt but also yogurt with fruit,
vanilla, chocolate and various other flavours are common. To offset its
natural sourness, yogurt is often sold sweetened, flavoured, or in
containers with fruit or fruit jam on the bottom. And when ever we
travelled different parts of Europe we found different texture and taste
for the same. It tastes completely different just across the border; [in
2003 European Union debated to give a standardized name to
yoghurt,](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/6481969.stm) but later
abandoned that project.

Well well, wherever you go you will find curd; may be of different
version in terms of *taste and characteristics*. So, while I have my
**daily dose of friendly bacteria** you can certainly think on whether
its worth to have or not.
