+++
title = "Viva Goa - Day 2"
slug = "2007-04-14-viva-goa-day-2"
published = 2007-04-14T06:40:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "reading", "sleep", "road", "market", "beach", "car", "Goa", "airport", "sale",]
+++
In Goa, traveling around by **rented motorcycle or car** is imperative
if you want more than just sun, surf and sand. It gives lot of freedom
but can be perilous at same time. On second day early morning we haggled
at least with three owners for renting and lastly ended up with Activa
for Rupees 250(it is better to rent for long durations to get good
price). Another reason for renting was we wanted to go to Bicholim to
visit Santanu’s maternal uncle for dinner. Normally, roads of Goa are as
smooth as airport tarmacs except few parts.

After breakfast (bread, butter, jam and juice or tea) at hotel which was
included in our package we rode on Calangute-Baga road and soon realised
that hotel in which we are staying is at main spot at entrance of this
road which leads to Baga beach.

![](../images/2007-04-14-viva-goa-day-2-goa-handcraft.jpg)

This road to Baga Beach from Calangute is full of *handcraft items*,
which are lucrative to foreign tourist (but not worth the money). Just
opposite to our hotel was a nice *Tibetan market* which offers all kinds
of gems and silverwork, wooden statues of the Buddha's and Hindu
deities. Besides, Calangute and Baga have been swamped by *Kashmiri
traders* putting up Kashmiri carpets, wooden crafts, embroidery and
papier-mâché boxes for sale. Famous night clubs like **Tito** are on
this road - vivacious with tourist and locals that mean shops are open
till late while other parts of Goa goes to sleep.

![](../images/2007-04-14-viva-goa-day-2-goa-wooden-rihno.jpg)

Interesting nugget of information about the Baga beach is that there are
a lot of touts asking for para-sailing, water-sports, dolphin boat-ride,
and banana ride etc. hawking wares include skirts, tee-shirts, novels
etc. You will be offered with cup of tea to ayurvedic massages as every
one tries to sell their service or product. It means you can sip chilled
beer while getting a temporary tattoo done or reading a novel. For these
services you need to bargain -We were told they were offering good
Indian price compared to foreign tourist .But in reality tourists are
tourists and local try to milk them out as much they can - the bitter
truth of vacation.

Well, we rented sun-beds at Rs 50 for few hrs took dip in the turquoise
water which was really fun. Best part to see majority of Indian women
clad in colourful saris stand up to their waist in the water while
others wear shorts, bikinis and swimsuit. Pot-bellied Indian men in
shorts or undergarments saving a buck or two for swimsuit. Though there
are few smarties (women) who come prepared in Indian attire with
swimsuit inside to take a dip and get quickly changed. Indian visitors
flock to giggle at the tribes of dreadlocked white-skin on the vast
white sandy beach.

Being famished we headed towards **Plantain Leaf** (only vegetarian) for
udipi thali. Came back to hotel for afternoon siesta and left at evening
for Bicholim After tanking up at Mapusa we rode via Fort Corjuem to
Bicholim - it was a long ride but enjoyable.
