+++
title = "Tonsuring my baby’s head: Tirupati"
slug = "2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati"
published = 2009-11-14T13:38:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Bangalore", "Tirupati", "Featured", "Tirumala Venkateswara Temple", "bagalore to tirupati", "BANS restaurant", "Fortune keenness  hotel", "Woody's restaurant", "car trip",]
+++
Ever since from childhood heard about Tirupati but never had a chance
till date or never understood why people use to grumble till they had
darshan. May be god wanted me to experience the same. Few days back
Santanu suddenly decided to visit before his upcoming hectic weeks at
office. So it was kind of planned-unplanned trip. Why unplanned
knowingly was....we didn't had any ticket in hands before starting the
journey nor we had any references to make use of. As planned, we were to
start early morning at 5 but when we woke up to the alarm ring I could
hear tiny shards of crystals falling from the sky against leaves, trees
and windows. I woke Santanu- he looked at the time, then towards the
window and back to clock. The clock said it was 4.15am but it was dark
outside. Bed was warm and comfortable so he puts again the alarm back
for 5.00am. This time we both jumped out of bed with the alarm ring. We
kept our things packed last night only so last minute final touch up was
left with packing which Santanu did; while I got dressed up and fed
Aarush in his sleep. By 6.00 we were at our parking lot.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3893.jpg)](../images/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3893.jpg)

The route that we took for Tirupati was **Bangalore** **– Kolar
–Mulbagilu - Palamneru - Chittoor – Tirupati**. Road till Kolar is not
that excellent as of ongoing construction. Because of which we missed
Woody's restaurant and moreover my son was in deep sleep. So decided to
make a stop at **Cafe-Coffee Day** for restroom. Foods are highly pricey
but excellent in terms of neatness. Still Aarush was sleeping blissfully
and we didn’t wanted to disturb him as when he is in sleep its good for
driving by accelerating. Took one take away coffee for Santanu from
cafe-coffee day and we were on our way. After 10 we stopped at **BANS
restaurant** near Chittoor had our breakfast there; (prices were
reasonable and very neat place) and were back at road. Landscapes are
really worth seeing particularly on sunny day but unfortunately weather
was bad that day. On way at Palamneru check post one police man stopped
us seeing our Maharashtra number plate car and asked for 100 rs as we
were going to Tirupati...strange! Was that we were going for fun or
honeymoon that he thought so? We declined saying give us a receipt for
the same or leave us. We reached Tirupati around 11.00am. **Tirupati**,
is the temple town in Chittor District of Andhra Pradesh, located in the
foothills of Tirumala. And **Tirumala** is famous for the shrine **Lord
Venkateshwara**.

Santanu decided to go to Tirumala to get the tickets for darshan first
and later look for hotel at foothill. So we straight away went towards
hill after scanning our baggage and paying toll of Rs 20.Road is one way
and really superb to drive through with scenic beauty around .It took 25
min. to reach there. Till this point every thing went smoothly now
actual part starts that how and where to get ticket with less wait time
in queue for darshan. Best part is nobody knows exactly; everyone will
say something different. Through internet study we knew that **Vaikuntam
Queue Complex**- (is a series of inter-connected halls that leads to the
main temple) will give ticket of Rs. 300 for (Seeghra Darshan) fast
darshan but actuality is that you get into queue immediately without
knowing when you can see lord while if you buy tickets of Rs. 50 and Rs.
100 it is given according to availability of ticket on that particular
day with no guarantee on time spent on queue. So one person there told
us to go to **Vijaya bank** for fast darshan. Then we drove back near to
bus stand where Vijaya bank is after searching here n there. The people
near counter have hardly any time to explain about anything. Its like
you buy ticket or get lost kind of. Anyways at counter he said he has
ticket for same evening nothing for Sunday morning. We wanted for Sunday
early morning so that after shower we can pay our obeisance as it was
our **7th anniversary**. As of man proposes and god disposes, we bought
ticket blindly for that evening of 1000 bucks without understanding any
head or tail. This time biometrics (finger printing and photo) were
taken to eliminate the involvement of middlemen, I believe.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3903.jpg)](../images/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3903.jpg)

On getting tickets on hand we saw it was written **Sahasra
Deepalankarana Seva** at kovulu mandapam infront of temple at 5.30 pm
with 5 small laddus free. And maximum no. of people allowed for this is
5. Now we started looking for temple as it was already 2.30 PM and at
tirumala for everything there is a big line be it for ticket counter,
ladoo counter, tonsure, restroom etc. We crossed on the way Ram Bagicha
Guest House(aka RBGH), maths, kalyan mandapam etc then also could not
figure out where the temple is as of misty weather. Then we asked one
person who guided us to Ram Bagicha entrance and told to ask there. At
**Ram bagicha** on asking security personnel he told us to go to
building next to Ram Bagicha- 3. Till then we were not sure whether we
were in temple premises or not as temple's gold overlaid **gopuram** was
not visible because of rain. The crowd, queue all together makes the
rains a harrowing experience. Moreover in our ado we forgot to take our
umbrella. On asking same person about head tonsuring he said it’s done
just at side downstairs of Rambagicha. I had a strong belief that
**tonsuring** being so famous that must be done with some mantra ucharan
but in actuality nothing like that. With Rs. 10 coupon we got one barber
to get Aarrush's head tonsured. There hands are so experienced that they
did it in few minutes while my son kept crying frantically. Thereafter
barber was again asking for more money which we denied.

On asking a temple worker at that hall he told one small puja of half an
hour will be performed there as of rain and after collecting one silk
**Uttariyam and blouse piece** along with prasadam we need to stand in
queue to get glimpse of lord. As it was already 3.30 we decided to feed
Aarush with idli just opposite that hall but he strongly denied after
1-2 morsel which we two later finished. And by 4.00 we went to that hall
where they made us sit.Best part was since we were before time we got
chance to sit in first row. Strangely, one temple worker gave us
something to apply in forehead which we took with the thought that we
might be only one lacking it but oh my gosh...next moment he asked for
money. We declined to give any money. Truly, till this point we were
feeling like something fraud going on with us; **people keep trying to
dupe you**. Then mustering enough courage I asked person sitting beside
me showing our ticket he told that he has also the same and not to worry
we will be able to see lord at last. In the midst of Vedic chanting and
singing of **Sankirtanas** which was live telecasted we were astonish to
see priests with three thick chains one large pendant hanging near his
belly-button other then ear ring, golden watch strap, wristlet....o
...god real money making place not to be mentioned. A priest with chain
and ear ring is quite common there.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3899.jpg)](../images/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3899.jpg)

After half an hour we rushed along with others for queue; various sign
boards indicate the location of the room where pilgrims need to report
for their darshan or seva. Outside the room, ticket is checked along
with the biometric data provided at the time of ticket purchase. It was
6.15 when we entered this hall we waited for 10 min. I believe this was
the last hall of VQC; Once the gates exiting the halls are opened, the
devotee joins the actual queue, and from this point in the queue it
takes about 60–90 minutes (standing/walking) to reach the **sanctum
sanctorum** and have Darshan. Just before entering the temple, there is
a bridge connecting **Queue complex to Temple** where baggage are
scanned for last time. The patience to keep moving step by step, for
hours together is ultimate one.All you can see here is the tonsured
heads be it male or female and people chanting
**Gooovinda...Gooovinda**. Anyways after moving on endless queue with
long wait we reached sanctum sanctorum where people crushed us on from
every side which is unexplainable. Near to sanctum felt like stuck in
unmoving queue. Even my little son couldn't control his tears he just
burst out (out of hunger, claustrophobia, with madness crushing from all
sides). At times waiting in a queue felt like God simply refused to see
us. On reaching inside officials were pushing devotees to one side
before one can have proper sight of lord. Lastly, that **momentary
glimse** of lord arrived where before we could fold our hands we found
ourselves at one corner. All the while I felt like asking god only this
much fraction of seconds you have for your devotees who are dying to see
you.

Literally, I have to struggle with my memories to recollect lord's face.
Then with crowd came out saw golden hundi offered our bare minimum
dakshinas and then took one round of temple then again formed a queue to
collect prasadam chakkera-pongali (sweet pongal) which was hot enough
for that cold rainy day. From there followed sign of **ladoo counter**
which is again very commercialized. You need to buy poly bags for rs 2.
Then stand in designated queue depending on type of ticket you bought.
Thank god our had less queue so got almost instantly. We wanted to buy 2
more extras but couldn't figure out how and where to collect coupons for
the same.Well, satisfied with what we had and happy enough that God at
least wished to see us in this form without bath and without wasting
much time in queue. It was 7.15 pm when we took exit from temple so one
hour exactly from the time we were in queue.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3906.jpg)](../images/2009-11-14-tonsuring-my-babys-head-tirupati-IMG_3906.jpg)

Worth visiting without any plan all because of Gods grace may be. We
decided to stay that night at **Fortune keenness** hotel @ Tirupati
 just opposite the bus stand. Drove down-hill carefully which is again
one way. Roads are really good here with a view of city. Although
considered to be 4 star but room 116 provided to us had a  roof with
water dripping due to extra moisture . Other then that rest facilities
were **A class**. Had paid buffet dinner after hot shower and buffet
breakfast next day morning was complimentary.

Anyway, **happy sort-of-anniversary**! we were content from our trip
which ended successfully. As of rain decided to return Bangalore before
evening so started at 10.00 am. On way this time we made sure to halt at
**Woody's restaurant** and had a quick stop at **BANS** for restroom.
God knows why people want to eat at Woody's. It was buzzing with flies;
I am sure if one or 2 fly get in with food I won't be surprised so asked
for take away. Moreover we were so stuffed with buffet breakfast that we
were hardly hungry enough so had lassi only. And by 4.30 pm we reached
our parking lot.
