+++
title = "Birth of a Mother-I"
slug = "2009-02-22-birth-of-a-mother-i"
published = 2009-02-22T03:50:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "baby", "Aarush", "pregnancy",]
+++
It was **11th Jan** when I went to my gynecologist in emergency as
couldn't feel the movements. After check-up she mentioned that if my
baby didn't arrive anytime sooner than 15 she would have to perform an
induction. She didn't wanted to take any risk at this stage because of
**cervical incompetence and heart problem**. So at last, we opted for
planned c-section on **17th Jan**.

  

Night before took admission at MGM Belapur, Navi Mumbai. This time I
knew few of the nurses and attendants quite well from my last stay at
hospital (3 months before). Those who were in night duty came to me
giving encouraging words for next day. Most of the night couldn't sleep
because of anxiety. Being a first time mother, I was completely blurred
on labor. On d-day very early morning I took a preoperative shower;
getting ready for this big event. From morning onwards I was asked not
to take water or food and was on **IV** till I was taken to **O.T.** It
was **Thursday**, around 11 am my waterbag broke; I got scared & nervous
at first thought to myself. Finally the time has arrived for my baby to
be born. Immediately my ob-gynae. was informed and I was prepared to be
taken to OT. Everyone was busy monitoring baby's movement and heartbeat
every few minutes as I laid on the bed. They wheeled me immediately to
OT. Junior doctors, my gynecologist, anaesthesiologist, cardiologist –
physician and pediatrics were already there in the room. They were
talking among themselves as well to me to keep my mind diverted.

  

They moved me from trolley-bed to Operation table which was really
narrow . Ceiling suspension lights were turned on. On one side there was
table with their instruments and items such as pickups, scissors,
scalpel blades and needles etc. Phew.. seeing them my heartbeat raced,
eyes rolled big. My gyne. was already ready in her surgical attire with
gloves, caps, masks, suture sterile gown and protective eyewear. Soon my
cardiologist along with anaesthesiologist went through the report and
explained what he is going to do, what would happen and how I will feel.
**VOILA!** He made me sit straight and his juniors started preparing my
back skin with antiseptic agents and there after he administered 2 or 3
injections at spinal cord. This was **local anesthesia** (partly
conscious) compared to what I experienced before during 6th month which
was general one. While junior doctor helped me to lay on my back again.
These injections almost paralyzed me from bottom. As shadow less mobile
operation light was switched on I surrendered myself to my doctor while
she comforted with nice pretty smile.

  

As I lie with my lower part paralyzed, hands strapped far apart. Once
finished with the catheter, I requested them to blindfold me as could
not take anymore of those sharp instruments coming that close to my
body. ***It took hardly few minutes (10-12 min.- I suppose) for my
gynae. to take out the baby from womb.*** What I understood is stitching
is long procedure compared to that of delivery part. “**It’s a male**”
she said barely discernible over the loud crying when someone spanked
his bottom. After delivering the baby she left the room while
cardio-physician and anesthetist remain to do rest of their job.
Arrgh... God the whole process went well. Around 12.40 PM Aarush was
showed to me...he was so tiny then weighing 3.5kg only. *The doctors and
the attending staff were the most loving people and I just felt very
cared for and attended to.*

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-02-22-birth-of-a-mother-i-aarush-1st.jpg)](../images/2009-02-22-birth-of-a-mother-i-aarush-1st.jpg)

<span style="text-align: justify;">Here he starts his </span>**arduous
journey**<span style="text-align: justify;"> to outside world with
elbows bent, hips and knees flexed, arms and legs held close to the
front of body. His nails were sharp enough to hurt one, with fine soft
hair present on face, shoulders, and back.</span>
