+++
title = "Birth of a Mother-II"
slug = "2009-02-25-birth-of-a-mother-ii"
published = 2009-02-25T05:42:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "baby", "breast feeding", "Aarush", "pregnancy",]
+++
Truly said-  

*The moment a child is born,the mother is also born.She never existed
before.The woman existed, but the mother, never.A mother is something
absolutely new.*

**~Rajneesh**  

As soon as I was moved out of O.T. Aarush was brought to his crib next
to me. His didu was first to hold him in her arms then was given
forcefully to his thamma. She didn't wanted to take him as it seems he
would become "**Kol-lengra**" (will get use to be in arms). His didu &
nanu were extremely happy on his arrival as he was the first boy in
their family of daughters and grand-daughters. My bottom part was still
paralyzed. Since I was half conscious soon both new mom and son were
sleeping. In the same evening, I was feeling sick while everyone in room
looked busy. Hubs busy seeing his offspring, [taking picture running
here and there](http://blog.santm.com/2008/01/28/an-announcement)...
taking all those **[phone calls,
sms](http://blog.santm.com/2008/02/14/sms-received)**

... . I laid there looking around. My mom was there day and night at my
side.  

I was to stay here for complete 5 days. During the stay in hospital, I
was asked not to take bath but only sponge for 10days from date of
delivery while an old attendant used to give bath to Aarush. She was a
charming lady always helping and giving tips to a first time mothers
like me.

The first two days was very difficult for me as I was not able to move
myself neither can sleep on sides because of IV and going out of bed was
like climbing Mt. Everest. On third day doctor removed the catheter and
asked to go to loo by myself or with help. But at any cost I was asked
to get out of bed which really killed me almost.

Who on earth says its better to be operated. My personal thinking is
both normal delivery and c-section has their own plus-minus points. I
heard and read from different blogs about normal delivery; labor pain is
hell but the recovery is quite quick while in c-section birth is easy
but recovery is excessively painful and long. To get up from bed after
operation I had to call attendant so that she would hold me and I can
drag along with her to the toilet, each steps felt like a mile. The
**tip** is *to start walking straight from that moment onwards however
it pains you just need to do it. Although you feel a pull at the
stitches but this is normal. Walk as frequently as possible even if it
is just a few steps at a time. You will gradually find it easier to
walk.*

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-02-25-birth-of-a-mother-ii-pam_aar.jpg)](../images/2009-02-25-birth-of-a-mother-ii-pam_aar.jpg)

On third day doctor asked me to start feeding Aarush; but it looked like
I was not lactating so he was given formula through syringe. After
taking medicine I started lactating but he was not ready for
breast-feed. He did not like to work hard for sucking the milk while
formula was dropped inside his mouth. He does not have to do any effort
for that. He really made me feel miserable because of sleepless night
from that day. He was hungry but he did not wanted to take my milk and
doctor was now adamant on breast feeding only- **“No more top milk and
no water only breat milk till any solid is started”**. On 4 th day
somehow he tried but very poor job. Being first timer I too never knew
how to feed. Result- got sore nipples. Then on 5th day pediatrics came
to show the proper latch which really helped. And she added no cream for
sore nipples- **mothers own milk will heal it**. The same evening I was
discharged from the hospital; we reached home just before dusk.

Before discharge I was given certain advice by my Gynae. to minimize
pain and soreness as stitches are done in layers - *No excercise at Gym
for next 6 months- walking is best excercise.No lifting of heavy things
for 2 months.Not to go near fire for 3 months.Resting helps to heal so
don't even laundry,clean or do dusting for atleast first 2 months.*

At home we were welcomed with blowing of conch shell and ululation.
Everything went on smoothly till middle of night. Aarush's crying
session started as out of habit he wanted top milk without effort. That
night was really long for whole family. Neither Santanu nor my parents
had sleep because of his crying. Whole night I kept trying to feed but
in vain. Santanu and my mother were very anxious as yet Aarush did not
started breast feeding.

I experienced ***“A baby who has been crying for some time before being
tried on the breast may refuse to take the breast even if he is
famished”***. We made all the arrangement for the formula but we knew if
we give him top milk - it will be almost impossible to give up this
habit of top milk. Atlast, on Tuesday morning when Santanu was about to
heat water to make formula around same time he started to have milk. Oh!
God what a relief that was for every one; soon both Mom and son were
having a sound sleep after a grueling night. It took 6 days for both of
us to learn the technique of feeding and to be fed.
