+++
title = "Fifth Month"
slug = "2009-05-15-fifth-month"
published = 2009-05-15T05:12:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "baby", "Aarush", "banana", "solid food", "baby food", "Annaprasanna",]
+++
**May 17- June 16**  

By 5th month slowly started introducing **solid food** like banana and
apple puree to Aarush. According to our custom till
"[Annaprasanna](http://aarush.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/Annaprasanna)"
we are not suppose to introduce solid food like rice or wheat to baby.
And his didu was also against using common baby food item like "Cerelac"
as they contain rice or wheat. This resulted in his first solid bite
being fruit -- **mashed banana**. The first spoon he swallowed as my mom
fed him, but little man has a frown of disapproval, like "*what the heck
they are feeding me?!*" Well, as predicted, he didn't like that much for
the second spoon and started crying. We had to try again and again.
Though we had apples and banana in the fridge for him it seems he
started liking banana but not apple puree. His didu use to feed him
making him sit on her lap.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-05-15-fifth-month-aarush_sisters.jpg)](../images/2009-05-15-fifth-month-aarush_sisters.jpg)

Our li'l one started to **roll** a bit; can be on his tummy. He tries to
edge forward by pushing with his feet or pulling with his arms. **Rarely
adorable, toothless smile was given in response to our talk**. He can
make different sounds come out of his mouth â€“ and was delighted in
experimenting with them.

By June 1st when his sissy's left my son was bit upset as house was not
buzzing any more. He had a great time with them. After they left he use
to look around as if he has been deserted. On June 4th his parental
uncle came to meet him for a day and Aarush was happy and playful that
evening. Suddenly there was strike at Calcutta and uncle's flight was
delayed that helped to spend more time with Aarush then expected.

This month was very hectic for Santanu as well me. We traveled a lot
almost criss-cross the whole country. It was not only traveling but also
move **from Bombay to Bangalore**, Santanu had to do it single handed.
From finding apartment to movers, closing or transferring various
accounts and establishments was not an easy task. Many a times we ended
up in arguments over phone for not things going in a way one wished for.

At first Santanu came to Mumbai for 4 days when he spent two days with
movers while they packed our belongings for Bangalore. After that he
ensured gas connection is transferred which is essential for living in
urban India. But lots of bureaucratic paper work as all domestic gas
agencies are controlled by government and it is a regulated market
space. From Bombay he came to Durg to take us to Siliguri. On June 10th
we departed from Durg for Calcutta after our long stay. Aarush cried a
lot during this flight but we had a great service from King Fisher
hostess.

After spending a half day at Central Calcutta (Santanu's uncle's place)
we left for Howrah Station in the night. The train was at midnight
(23:50 to be precise). Journey by train didn't made him happy. He was OK
during the whole day even though it was very hot and humid through out
the day. Surprisingly, the ever crowded Howrah Station did not bring any
adverse effect on him. But as soon as we got in to the AC compartment he
started to cry incessantly. May be because of claustrophobia or some
other discomfort can't say....he cried and wailed that were enough to
wake the dead. Luckily the compartment was empty and we had no
co-passenger complaining.

We went to Siliguri for his **first rice ceremony** which his **thamma**
arranged. It was five days function similar to that of Bengali marriage.
On June 16th, he first tasted rice without any fuss. It was a lot of
hard work, preparations and although we were dog tired, it was well
worth all the effort. All our expected guests came. There he met many
relatives as well people from neighborhood. Things went smoothly once we
reached there.
