+++
title = "Friday - Black Peper Crab"
slug = "2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab"
published = 2009-12-27T04:19:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Clarke Quay", "Dhoby Ghat Station", "Chilli crab", "John Little store", "Plaza Singapura", "Singapore", "Riverside Jumbo", "Carrefour", "Black pepper crab",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-breakfast.jpg)](../images/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-breakfast.jpg)

 <span style="text-align: justify;">On Friday we woke up early; had
breakfast- an elaborate one. Me and Aarush after shower around 11am left
our hotel room. Today again we walked on other side of </span>**Orchard
Street**<span style="text-align: justify;"> till Dhoby Ghat Station. Now
a days;  I too feel sick like my hubby when too much time spent at malls
… am I growing old ? :D  It was good to be in mall when it is raining.
On otherhand, it also allows you to enjoy the air-condition in the
stores as outside it is really hot and humid when not raining.  We
visited malls after mall </span>*Paragon, Orchard central, Specialist
Shopping Centre (John Little store), Plaza Singapura* <span
style="text-align: justify;">etc flanked on Orchard street. This street
is one of the best place to spend during any time of the year specially
during year end when  the whole stretch of the street and the buildings
are beautifully adorned with Christmas decors and lights.</span>  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-soup.jpg)](../images/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-soup.jpg)

Had hot piping **dumpling soup** at lunch while my son slept at street
shop.Then continued walking past official residence of Singapore
President, the **Istana** which is next to Plaza Singapora Mall.  There
I picked a  local SIM card in the same mall so that I can talk to my
hubby at least in need. Lastly, couldn’t stop myself on seeing
*Carrefour* French hyper store after long time at same mall. Bought some
errands and returned around 6-ish to the hotel.

Hubby too returned from office early being Friday around 7 ish; then we
together left for dinner at **Clark quay**. Everyone were in weekend
party mood. This area is lined with bars and notable restaurants like
*Hooters* and others strung together, looking somewhat identical. Many
waterfront restaurants to enjoy (Thai, Indian, Chinese ...) food one
wants to. They all have large covered patios that extend even further
uncovered. *G-MAX reverse bungee, River cruises and river taxies* on the
Singapore River can be accessed from Clarke Quay.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-boiled_prawns.jpg)](../images/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-boiled_prawns.jpg)

We chose Riverside **Jumbo** restaurant. Open air seating near the
waterfront; its relaxing place for long chats while savoring seafood
dishes after a long day of walking. We ordered **steamed prawns with
duck sauce** as starter. Instead of popular and common *Chili Crab*
which has more gravy we ordered **black pepper crab** a dry variant.
Taste wise Black Pepper Crab is dry and spicy! Very yummy!  Its Crispy
on the outside, light and fluffy on the inside.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-pepper_crab.jpg)](../images/2009-12-27-friday-black-peper-crab-pepper_crab.jpg)

This was my fist experience with crab; learned one thing that they are
delicious but messy to eat. Not the most elegant food to eat as they
serve with a bib and trust me - unless you eat crab regularly you'll get
it absolutely everywhere.  Literally struggled during the whole course
where the waitress kept on changing plates. Both hands got quite dirty
but thankfully they kept a bowl with warm water and plenty of napkins to
keep oneself clean. Santanu guided and helped me in cracking the crab.
He told me that pickers generally used to split the shell or push the
meat out with a long, thin tong. At times I felt like in a
 bio-laboratory to dissect this crabs and in this long process lost my
appetite. We need to use fingers in order to fully savour the crab.

We ordered some *Chinese buns* (man tou) for Aarush which did not liked
it much so we finished those on behalf of him. Next time, will
 definitely like to try the chilli crabs. As Aarush only had yogurt and
some side dish we got french fries for him which he had while running
near Clarke Quay riverside.

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Links**</span>

[www.jumboseafood.com.sg](http://www.jumboseafood.com.sg/ "River Side Jumbo")
