+++
title = "Shekhawati - Open Air Art Gallery"
slug = "2010-11-19-shekhawati-open-air-art-gallery"
published = 2010-11-19T17:17:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Rajasthan", "Dundlod", "Fatehpur", "Haveli", "Jaipur", "Marwar", "Birla", "Shekhawati", "castle Mandawa", "Nadine",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-11-19-shekhawati-open-air-art-gallery-shekhawati.jpg)](../images/2010-11-19-shekhawati-open-air-art-gallery-shekhawati.jpg)

**29th Oct -** We took SpiceJet flight to Jaipur but unfortunately could
not make it within time due to technical problems and traffic congestion
we were made to wait for 3 hrs inside flight. We reached around 22:00 to
our pre-booked **Hotel Madhuban** by prepaid taxi.

On reaching hotel driver says "*kya bekar hotel liya hain sir*"....ughh.
Lump in my throat as all booking was done by me. It was a laborious,
monotonous job going through website after website, jotting down details
regarding price. With heavy heart went in but found everything as per
internet photos only. We asked for next day car-hire for Shekhawati
daytrip which they arranged.

**30th Oct -** Morning 7.00am nice, clean amby was provided to us and we
started our day trip towards *withering Land of kuber*. On way we had
hot tasty parantha idly as breakfast from Dhabba. It takes 3hrs to reach
that region.  On way after talking to our cab driver we made our circuit
starting from towns like **Fatehpur, Mandawa, Churi-Ajithgarh,
Dundlod**, and **Nawalgarh** back to Jaipur.

Shekhawati is world renowned for its painted havelis and paintings,
their frescos depicting mythological and historical themes. Actually,
when the Marwaris made their first foray with the Maharajahs and
Thakurs, they found that there was money to be made from establishing
business in distant centres. Under the British their prosperity aspired
even higher, and they took their business to Calcutta, mumbai and other
pockets of influence. Tradition in those days was whoever made it good
would come back and build 4 things-**haveli, baoli(well), mandir and
dharamshala**. With the money they made, they ordered lavish havelis
back home and in order to make them attractive had them painted in what
has come to be defined as the Shekhawati fresco style. A sense of
competitiveness brought in excess, since this provided the worth of the
owner's presumed wealth.

Today’s eminent business group Birla, Goenka, Singhania, Poddar are all
from Shekhawati region which has now immerged as open art painting
gallery well preserving its historical heritage. Havelis are guarded at
the entrance by large wooden doors. Within these, a smaller door is
normally used for daily movements. Intricate wooden carvings with fancy
brass iron fittings demonstrating the owners’ wealth. The ground floor
is normally recessed in such a way that balconies overhang the street.
It was from the latticed windows on the balconies and over the
courtyards that women were able to get a glimpse of the men’s world. The
facade, the gateways, the courtyard walls, the parapets and ceilings,
were all covered with frescoes.

All these paintings are made with **natural colors**. For example yellow
was also obtained by evaporating the urine of cows fed for ten days on
nothing but mango leaves. The resulting paste was rolled into small
round ‘gayagolis’ and produced a brilliant yellow when dilated with
water.

They  used  the **‘Fresco Buono’** technique -  in this method only a
part of the wall was plastered at a time with three layers of very fine
clay. Sketches were made on the walls scratching the outshines into the
wet plaster with a sharpened stick. It remained without fading for
almost as long as the building lasted. A gum made from local plant or a
derivative of camel fat was used as the crucial binding agent.

At **Fatehpur** main attraction was **Nadine la Prince** which is bought
and restored by a French artist Nadine. At **Mandawa** its **Castle
Mandawa** besides **Sneh ram ladia ,Gulab rai ladia haveli and
JhunJunuwala golden** painted haveli, **Murmura** and **Double Goenka**
haveli (we could not visit as it was closed) at **Churi Ajithgarh** it’s
**Sheonarayans haveli** at **Dundlod** its **Goenka** haveli and at
**Nawalgarh** its **Poddar** haveli.  

**TIPS**: Best way to visit this regions by own transport but still you
need to do a good amount of walking once you reach
one particular destination. Hire guide(negotiable) to take you around.
No doubt beautiful painting, awesome architecture but one thing is sure
at Shekhawati after craning your neck whole day long at end you feel
like every other painting is same. After sunset there is no sense to be
there as artificial light will be not sufficient enough to see the
intricate painting details.

We skipped lunch to cover our itinerary and had very early dinner on way
back to Jaipur and by 9.00pm we were at our hotel door.
