+++
title = "Auroville"
slug = "2010-10-18-auroville"
published = 2010-10-18T04:36:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Sri Aurobindo", "Tamilnadu", "Paris", "pondicherry", "auroville", "Solar Kitchen", "Matri mandir",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-guest-house.jpg)](../images/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-guest-house.jpg)Almost
after one and half year we went for a long weekend out of Bangalore; our
very first road trip of 2010. We were looking for something near to
beach and thought of heading towards Pondichery but due to
unavailability of any sea facing hotel we opted of **Auroville**.
Certain thing really happens for good. The road was <span
style="text-decoration: underline;">Bangalore -&gt; Krishnagiri -&gt;
Tiruvanamalli -&gt;Tindivanam-&gt; Auroville.</span>

As usual Santanu had production outage @ work and went to sleep around 2
AM thanks to ‘new era new tool’ at work. Started early morning around
05.50; had breakfast at A2B (Krishnagiri) then around 07.50  we hit the
road. Non stop drive to Pondichery and reached around 13:00. The road
between Krishnagiri and Tiruvanamalli is undivided state highway with
lots of pot holes. You need to be very careful as most parts of the
roads are good but suddenly you get one big pot holes. Road between
Tindivanam and Pondicherry is newly done 4 lane highway.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-cycle.jpg)](../images/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-cycle.jpg)

We booked our room at "**Center Guest House**" through the website
[aurovilleguesthouse.org](http://aurovilleguesthouses.org/) just two
weeks ahead. They sent letter confirming it and with fine prints where
we were supposed to send the advance by Demand Draft now in the age of
credit cards we didn’t pay attention to the bottom part of the mail till
day before the trip. On contacting over phone they said to come over as
there was no other booking. Their rates include meal for three times a
day, bicycle and Yoga. . Its non-alcoholic and public smoking is
strongly discouraged; it is not a place for vacation – most come here to
meditate. Most Indian come and visit the Auroville as day trip from
Pondicherry.

Me and my hubby fell in love seeing the place and particularly when they
showed our room which is tucked between trees and you can see
butterflies, birds. Was just mesmerized to see the greenery all around.
Had Indian buffet lunch at dining hall and after relaxing for a while
went out to look for cycle. The dining hall had two baby chairs as well
which is so uncommon in India.

We found one cycle which had baby chair fixed; most cycles were tall and
typical DESI type with hard seat. After maneuvering for a while I
managed to get onto one finally as I am not used to these types of
cycles; Voila... We cycled here and there without thinking much and
looking at maps.

Best part is they have so many trails that you will never be bored and
the same time you will not be lost. The roads are in spiral in Auroville
just like the Paris is planned. Greenery is all around, few houses and
buildings with lots of shades from tress to make it more pleasant. If
you feel you are lost in this forest ask anyone be Indian or foreigner
they will guide you. Most residents or visitors are from France as you
can hear French all around you.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-matrimandir.jpg)](../images/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-matrimandir.jpg)

Its really place far off from city noise, pollution and traffic soaking
in the best nature has to offer. Negative thing about Aurorville is you
are forced to give up your fast paced city life. Everything gets closed
for lunch even lots of the facilities are only available for those who
stay longer like 8-10 days. If you stay longer you get an Auroville
cards which is like a pre-paid cash card but gives exclusive access to
some restaurants, café and others center like yoga.

We went to the visitor center and spent a good amount time in the
various boutique shops and picked a school bag for Aarush.  Once it
started to get dark we headed back to Guest House. We all had shower as
this place is quite hot and humid. Had continental buffet dinner at
night they do serve early evening between 7.00 - 7:30 PM. By 10.00 PM
they expect to be pin drop silence so every one around is sleeping well.
We also slept early.

Day -2
------

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-beach.jpg)](../images/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-beach.jpg)

After breakfast we went to bicycle stand and found someone has taken
away Pamela’s cycle and she has to find a new one all over again. Once
we started paddling we decided to go beach. The ride was a smooth one
but once we were off Green zone there were cars and as usual they did
not have any courtesy for cyclist. The 8 KM long ride was fun. The
access to the beach is not direct you need to access the trough a narrow
lane. Both the lane and the beach are very dirty have not seen any thing
dirtier than this.

From beach we came to Visitor center and watched video on **Matri
mandir**. For the first time visitor watching of the video is a must and
after  that one gets a pass to the vista point to see Matri-mandir.
Inside access is rusticated but open to all who wish to meditate.
   After that we came back to guesthouse for lunch. Santanu decided
against touching the car which means we had to postpone the trip to
Pondicherry for the last day of the trip. We went out with the cycle
around 4 went to [Solar
Kitchen](http://www.auroville.org/society/solarkitchen.htm) to start
with. As Solar kitchen only except Auroville cards we could only smell
aroma of good food and see other enjoying with our stomach rumbling we
left that place. After riding the cycle till dark we came back to guest
house and called it a day.

  

### Day-3

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-roma.JPG)](../images/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-roma.JPG)

We started early with quick breakfast and checkout by 9AM and headed
towards Pondicherry. The destination was French Quarter and **Aurobindo
Ashram**. We paid a quick visit to the Ashram. Children under 3 years
are not allowed. After walking around French quarter we went to a
restaurant and Aarush had his breakfast brunch. There was nothing much
to do in Pondicherry and we found it hotter than Auroville. We headed
back to Auroville again for our lunch as we wanted to try **Roma’s
Kitchen.**

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-roma-playing.jpg)](../images/2010-10-18-auroville-auroville-roma-playing.jpg)

The food there was excellent one of the best **pasta** I had in India.
The place is frequented by non-Indians and we noticed they all were
having Indian dishes.We enjoyed our Pasta while Aarush was too busy
running and playing with two French girls who were bit older than him.
He was so happy that he was crying while we tried to put him car. By
14:30 noon we started from there; the drive was OK and we reached
Krishnagiri by 18:30. But from there to Bangalore was long journey as
there was a major accident on the road and we reached home at 21:30.

If you are looking for a doing nothing kind of a weekend Auroville is
great. The best part is as most visitor who comes here from abroad lots
of small things like baby chair; clean bathroom is common. The food is
bit blend in Indian context but we liked it. People are courteous and
helpful.

[»More
pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/sets/72157638504292353/)  
[](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2010_001/tamilnadu/auroville "More pictures")[  
](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2010_001/tamilnadu/auroville "More pictures")
