+++
title = "Puri – Konark"
slug = "2010-10-03-puri-konark"
published = 2010-10-03T21:33:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Konark", "India", "Orissa", "Puri", "Santana Hotel", "Tourism in Orissa", "Jagannath", "Orrisa", "Hinduism", "Jaganath temple",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_beach_aarsh.jpg)](../images/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_beach_aarsh.jpg) <span
style="text-align: justify;">We had to extend our planned holidays as we
got a last minute invitation for my cousin's marriage now both marriages
were only 6 days apart. Personally was quite unhappy about the whole
situation of attending two marriages; instead of voicing opinions, kept
cribbing and ranting. Confronting such family matters does not work as
no one is right. Anyways, at times you are forced to go along with such
decision whether you like it or not.</span>  

Plan to
[Sunderban](http://blog.santm.com/2010/04/02/visit-to-hungry-tide-sunderban "Sunderban")
trip was made by Santanu as we wanted to go somewhere around Calcutta
not just one Wedding to start with. And now with extension of our
holiday we were left with 2 more days in hand. So after lots of thoughts
and web browsing we settled unanimously for **Puri** - every Bengalis
dream place or second home.
[Digha](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digha "Digha") an eminent beach
resort of West Bengal was shelved as everyone recommended against it.

  

[  
](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-N5EwkHWZ4wg/Us1iQwnYx2I/AAAAAAAABiY/FhLX70mYq8A/s1600/puri_prasad.jpg)

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_sand_artist.jpg)](../images/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_sand_artist.jpg)

From Calcutta its one night train journey and reached Puri early morning
by Puri express. Heard from lot of sources and found it in actuality too
that all kinds of people will start approaching you ,offering help
starting from getting hotel to visiting inside the temple by trying to
rob you. Avoided these people as much as possible.

We booked for **Hotel Santana** which was not sea facing but not far
from sea. It’s located on C.T. (Chakra Tirtha) Road where most
non-Indian prefer to stay. There are steady growth of foreigners in
recent years who find beaches of Orissa are more tranquil compared to
the famous one on western coast of India. Puri beach front is divided in
3 sections starting from west you have the old hotels which are
frequented by Bengali’s; the middle section is a no-tourist-land as
there is a big gutter which opens at sea and at the end you have the C.T
Road where new hotels are.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_in_front_temple.jpg)](../images/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_in_front_temple.jpg)First
thing for us after reaching hotel was to visit **Jaganath temple**. We
asked our hotel people to arrange for *darshan*. They did it within
hours time very kind of them. They told us not to pay any exorbitant
amount to that person just anything you wish should be fine enough. I
didn't know before that non-Hindus are not allowed inside the temple. We
had very smooth darshan despite lot of chaos and fight among police and
pandas were going on just before closing of temple at noon. It didn't
took much time too in queue compared to *Tirupati*.

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_prasad.jpg)](../images/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_prasad.jpg)After
darshan we decided to come back and had lunch as we were empty stomach
from morning so had food at one Jain place with no onion and garlic.
Then strolled around in the street near to hotel. It was quite hot and
bit humid at day time so went back to room. Rested for a while then left
hotel on foot around 4.00pm to walk along the beach towards bazaar. Till
8.00pm we were roaming around and then decided to come back as Aarush
was to be fed which was our concern. In evening we had temple bhog which
was huge chunk to be finished by two. You are not supposed to throw
**bhog** we shared the untouched portion with our hotel staffs who were
also happy to have it. The Prasad is so holy that a Hindu Brahmin will
eat the same even an un-touchable saves the same from a dog’s mouth.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_sweet.jpg)](../images/2010-10-03-puri-konark-puri_sweet.jpg)

Next day at 8.00am we left our room for **Konark** by a Cab from hotel
and on reaching the spot hired a guide. The Guide was well informed and
very decent took around and an hour or so to explain and then we took
our own time to look around. From there we came to **Chandbaga** (Konark
gold) beach. Aarush jumped into sea and was not willing to come out but
we convinced him somehow that in evening we will come again. We came
back to city center walked around temple area shopped some Saris and had
food there in one restaurant from where temple is seen very clearly.

[![](../images/thumbnails/2010-10-03-puri-konark-konark_sun_dial.jpg)](../images/2010-10-03-puri-konark-konark_sun_dial.jpg)

Did few shopping and came back to hotel. Then in evening as per our
promise we took Aarush to beach and he was very happy. At evening its
cool breeze which makes you to stay long then we came to street side
food where we had **fresh fish fry** and hurried to hotel for Aarush
before he gets cranky out of hunger.

At late night boarded train back to kolkata.
