+++
title = "Jaisalmer"
slug = "2011-03-11-jaisalmer"
published = 2011-03-11T00:34:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Rajasthan", "Haveli", "Sonar Kella", "Jaisalmer", "Jainism", "Deoki Niwas hotel",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-03-11-jaisalmer-jaisalmer.jpg)](../images/2011-03-11-jaisalmer-jaisalmer.jpg)

We reached **Jaisalmer** early morning around 4.00am.Going from station
to hotel is another headache if you don’t have pick-up service
particularly at wee hours. We didn't had that service from hotel as it
was extra 100INR so on reaching station we found, 10 people surrounded
us even they don’t allow couples to talk among themselves.  Finally
hired one for 40 INR to go to **Deoki Niwas** hotel. When we reached, we
literally had to wake them up. It’s newly started so spic n span with
good service and breakfast.

After rest around 10.00am we went to Satyajit Ray's “**sonar kella**” -
**Jaisalmer fort** where we hired a guide who took us around.  This
palace is made of yellowish sandstone, crowned by several ornate Jain
temples. Many of the houses and temples are finely sculptured.  It is
only living fort and about a quarter of city's population still live
inside the fort. The main attractions inside the fort are: **Raj Mahal
(Royal palace), Jain temples and the Laxminath temple** and *four
massive gates*. It is filled with many artistic structures and monuments
of historical importance.

Other then this there are havelis like: **Patwon-ki-Haveli** is ornate
five-storey complex took fifty years to complete. This is the largest,
magnificent and the most elaborate of Jaisalmer havelis. Among others
are **Nathmalji-ki-Haveli, Salam Singh-ki-Haveli, Haveli Shreenath**. We
covered this havelis by walk as they are very close by. Some of the
doors and ceilings are wonderful examples of old carved wood from many
hundreds years ago. Some of the doors have brass or iron fittings.
Certain facade is a riot of ornamentation: flowers, birds, elephants,
soldiers, a bicycle and even a steam engine. These havelis have
countless rooms, with decorated windows, archways, doors and balconies
and some have still lived in by the families that built them.

We had our late lunch near entrance to fort at **Little Italy**(nothing
great). Then in afternoon 4PM we booked for **desert safari** they took
us to Lodhurva. Lodhurva is famous for its Jain temples which are build
with same yellow stones. There is a **Kalpavriksha** or the celestial
tree build with metals which replaced the original tree died.  Since we
didn’t book for any **camel safari** beforehand (I mean it was on spot)
so kind of they cheated us by stopping quite before the actual **Sam
sand dune** and they wanted us to go by camel. 2-3 KMs before reaching
actual point of san dune we saw sun set and on reaching spot it was
already dusk I was very depressed being cheated in this way as we went
to see sunset only but Santanu-Aarush had nice time with first
experience on **camel ride**.

With heavy heart we returned to Jaisalmer fort and had dinner at **8th
July** run by an Indian who resides in Australia. The highly
personalized service of Mrs. Rama Bhatia ensuring that you get
absolutely home cooked food hygienically prepared. Jags has an in-depth
knowledge of shayri and old Hindi film music. Although it is slightly
expensive but I guess one needs to pay a little extra for clean and
tasty food.

Next morning Santanu went alone to see **Gadisar Lake** as Aarush was
sleeping. Then after breakfast leisurely we checked out around 10.30am
and went again to fort after taking one round of fort;  went to 8th July
restaurant where Mrs. Rama Bhatia was already in work we took the best
location with wonderful views of the palace under shade (its Veg resto
and offers fresh alphanzo mango juice- tall glass). The restaurant is
near Dussera pol gate and opposite the Palace. We ended up having lunch
and packed food for dinner and returned to hotel to pick our luggage as
he had our tain back to Jaipur at 4.00pm.It was our 2 day one night
trip.

-   [More
    Pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/sets/72157638506490713/)

> > **TIP**: Only one night  is enough for Jaisalmer or or at the most 2
> > night stay if one likes to stay in sand dunes. Sam sand-unes is
> > highly commercialised. In last 10 years, it has changed a lot. Some
> > suggested  Khuri a village 45 km south west of Jaisalmer as better
> > location for Sand dunes. Train (\#4060) does not have a pantry car
> > so please pick your dinner before leaving Jaisalmer.
