+++
title = "Jodhpur 1st Nov 2010"
slug = "2011-02-22-jodhpur-1st-nov-2010"
published = 2011-02-22T18:46:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "opium", "Rajasthan", "Hotel-kuchamann haveli", "willy jeep", "antelopes", "Jodhpur", "Salawas",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-02-22-jodhpur-1st-nov-2010-jodhpur1.jpg)](../images/2011-02-22-jodhpur-1st-nov-2010-jodhpur1.jpg)

31<sup>st</sup> midnight boarded train to Jodhpur from Jaipur after a
long day we were very tired . The train was late as it arrived from
Delhi. On the train meet **Subhoji**t who was also in Rajasthan for one
long week break just like us from Bangalore. Their itinerary was bit
different compared to us and they were going to Jaiselmer. On the wee
hours of 1st November reached the platform of Jodhpur and thankgod for
ensuring that hotel provided a cab for pickup. Otherwise bargaining and
negotiating with cab and auto drivers would be very difficult when you
are half sleepy in a new town.

Reached our **hotel Kuchamann haveli** and slept as much we can.  Some
how pulled ourselves out of the bed at 7.30am had breakfast. And at
8.20am started for **bishnoi village** day trip. Aarush was still
sleeping when we reached the Jeep.

Our driver cum guide gave a brief description about Bishnoi community
(29 bish: twenty, noi: nine) and was dressed in traditional attire and
picked us in a old Willy Jeep. Although these people are Hindu, they
bury their dead to give the body back to the nature and save woods for
cremation. They are considered to be very eco friendly in order to
protect trees even *Khejarli Massacre* (where 363 bishnoi people
sacrificed to protect the trees) took place. Idea behind this tour is
that it helps you escape from the modernity and rush of the city and
takes you to “**off beaten path**” - small villages where the locals
live.

On the way, from Jodhpur to Guda village we spotted some wild life
(spotted deer, blue bulls and antelopes) which seems bishnoi people
being close to nature they don't kill them.  Famous case of **Salman
Khan** shooting a dear happened around here. Our guide was driving in
bit speed and failed to  maneuver which caused our Jeep to topple side
wise. Luckily nothing happened to any one and around 6-7 people came by
to lift the jeep from the trench. Aarush was bit shocked and still
remembers this incident clearly.

Our reception was warm and friendly starting with a visit to traditional
**opium ceremony**. Although, Opium is illegal in India but the locals
have special rights preserved for them to continue with their
traditional practices. Very strange thing here is penniless women flaunt
heavy silver jewelry. One more thing to notice was *women being the
symbol of creation they wear vibrant colors such as red and orange while
men wear white as a symbol of cleanliness and austerity.*

Then we saw many shepherds on the way to **singhasni** (Muslim religion
Potter's village). We were instructed on how to spin the wheel, form
clay and set the pots out to dry. The village looks like a battlefield
with its drying pots resembling piles of cannonballs. Santanu did try
his hand but it seems it’s not that easy as it looks to be. *When they
take you to such trip they expect you to buy their products.*

To round out our trip we stopped at **Salawas** (Weavers village) where
we had our lunch. Before lunch we were shown how durries (mat) are
weaved; when he starts to speak he knows business, literally. Then
traditional lunch was offered to us. After meal, although mat(durry) was
costly but we bought one and bid them bye. *Its place where life still
goes on like the days of the past.* The sun was quite hot and we came
back around 3 PM back to hotel,

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-02-22-jodhpur-1st-nov-2010-jodhpur2.jpg)](../images/2011-02-22-jodhpur-1st-nov-2010-jodhpur2.jpg)

Aarush was sleepy but he did not sleep and as soon we boarded a auto he
was sleeping. We went to *C-Road, sardarpura* which is a lively part of
Jodhpur with many shops and eatery. The main purpose for going out was
to dine at **Gypsy**. As we reached  quite early  Aarush was sleeping
all along; we roamed around did little shopping before entering Gypsy a
 superb clean place to be for pure veg. rajasthani thali with one
condition food taken on plate can't be thrown. Food is served umpteen
number of times. And they keep asking for more serving which we really
enjoyed it. If you are a true connoisseur of food, then do not miss this
place it only cost 150 INR per plate.
