+++
title = "Sleeper Class"
slug = "2011-04-20-sleeper-class"
published = 2011-04-20T02:40:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = []
+++
Indian railway ferries millions of passenger each day. The network is
vast and somewhat efficient. But it is no way near to world class even
though it was one of the best luxury trains in its flight. For most
Indian travelling in train means a sleeper class more and more prefer AC
one now days.  With ticket price of Airlines going up more and more
people are going back to train as it is still easy on pocket. The only
drawback is it is extremely slow in modern context. A 1000 KM journey
takes 24 hours to complete, where as TGV cross whole France in couple of
hours.

Coming back to the personal part I had to travel to Mumbai on a personal
trip and opted for train over the last weekend. I started from Bangalore
on Thursday at 20:30 and reached Mumbai around 20:00. The journey was
quite peaceful not that crowded general sleeper class. And had catch-up
of lots of sleep during that journey. Reaching CSTM (former VT) bought a
1<sup>st</sup> class ticket for the local and reached Kharghar.

Saturday woke up early, cleaned up the old belongings from my brother
apartment and ensured our one is also in proper condition. Settled with
old tenant and signed a new lease with the new one. By midday it was all
done and I was quite relaxed that all these long pending to-do list
ultimately got shortened.

In the evening hired  a cab to reach Dadar for the return train.
Unfortunately I did not bought my ticket using TATKAL(immediate) and was
on wait list which was in RAC(Reservation against Cancellation) state.
Now with RAC you can bored the train but have to share a seat with
someone else.

The train was packed and there was no way to move up the chart to get a
berth of my own. At Pune a family boarded  who had 7 or 8 confirmed
seats. They wanted all their seat nearby and agreed to give up 2 seat in
return of one. This felt like a gift from God to me and my co-passenger.
This kind of luck never happened to me before to be honest. So had a
good sleep during the night. Afternoon I was feeling sleepy so went to
sleep again but the rain started to pack-up with normal pessengers. This
is quite common in Sleeper class where people without reservation( at
day time) gets in as the general coaches are so much packed that flies
can not squeeze in. Well it almost lasted till Bangalore and train
somehow got delayed by an hour.

So as whole it was a OK journey comparing to my college days. Where it
used to take me almost 3 to 4  days to reach home. But definitely cannot
do this journey with Aarush at this age, he needs to wait for few more
years.

Well this journey is not about any fancy experience but I am sure every
common Indian has stories to share on their train journeys. Here is the
expense I did …

Train ( Bangalore to Mumbai ) – INR 468

Train ( within Mumbai) INR 115

Cab (Mumbai) – 500 INR

Cab(Bnagalore) – 370 INR

Looks like I spent more on local travel within the city than the train
ticket … a more thought on the same……..
