+++
title = "Kovalam and Varkala beach"
slug = "2012-08-14-kovalam-and-varkala-beach"
published = 2012-08-14T14:46:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Kerela", "Varkala beach", "Trivandrum", "Blue Sea", "Kerala", "Kovalam",]
+++
Drive from Kanyankumari was smooth, Aarush took a small nap. The road
was undivided two lanes so the speed was limited but the lush green from
paddy field , coconut grove and plantation leaves was pleasant for eyes.
We reached Kovalam as per our plan, saw sunset which was magnificient.
It was great to watch perfect sunrise and sunset on a same day. Public
Beach was next to Taj and Leela hotels where large part belongs to them
for their private beach. Now we started to search for hotel and ended up
with Blue Sea. Did not find anything special but food was definitely
good and the property looks like going down the hill as two brother
split on the same.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-08-14-kovalam-and-varkala-beach-kerala-beach.jpg)](../images/2012-08-14-kovalam-and-varkala-beach-kerala-beach.jpg)

  

  

Next morning we went geared up towards light house beach which we found
to be much more serene compared to earlier one. It has long stretch to
take a stroll. Had our breakfast at one of the sea facing restaurant;
there were some reasonable price hotels with a view need to explore
sometime later. Aarush and Santanu went inside the water to take a dip.
Aarush with his plaster initially was reluctant but once he got used to
the waves wanted to spend more time there.

  

At afternoon, came back to our room had lunch and some rest then went to
Thiruvananthapuram to visit “**Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple**”. Drive
from Kovalam to city was was not long but full of traffic. One of the
108 sacred Vishnu temples in India displays a supreme blend of Kerala
and Dravidian styles of architecture. The temple has strict order where
only Hindus are allowed and male must enter bare chest and wear dhoti.
Even for Aarsush they had a dhoti to rent. From there we went in search
of place within Thiruvananthapuram to see Kathakali and martial arts but
in turn ended up seeing Napier Museum, Oriental Research Institute &
Manuscripts Library and other old heritage buildings which was worth
passing by but we failed to capture them in moving car. Unfortunately,
these all are on main roads where you cannot stop unless you park your
car properly. One thing definitely caught our eyes was the number of
jewelry/Gold shops. Around 8 PM we returned to our room so that we can
have early dinner and head off early morning to next spot Varkala beach.
Settled the bills with hotel for a early start.

  

Left Kovalam at 6AM and crossed Thiruvananthapuram city without any
traffic jam this time. Varkala is also famous for the 2,000-year old
Janardana Swami Temple considered as Dakshin Kashi. But we skipped and
headed straight towards beach around 7am it felt like heaven. Really
worth it would be staying over there. Since we have already booked for
that night at Kumarakom we could not make it. The views of the sunset
sunrise are worth lingering over. The cliff and the beach house a lot of
resorts, restaurants and other shops. The cliff has a long stretch of
small shops which goes on for over a kilometer where we took a walk and
had breakfast in one of the restaurant there. Looked like Varkala is
more famous with foreigners. The breakfast was great as we had some
European breakfast.
