+++
title = "Coonoor - Acre Wild"
slug = "2012-12-21-coonoor-acre-wild"
published = 2012-12-21T19:03:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Tamilnadu", "Rose Graden", "Coonoor", "Wellington", "Tamil Nadu", "Masinagudi jungle", "Ooty",]
+++
We followed road suggested by Mr. Vijay to reach Coonoor, which was
quite deserted except few local people we were the only one on that
road. This road goes via tea gardens and gives a treat to your eyes.
Once we reached Coonoor we parked next to the bus stand and had a quick
thali lunch in nearby busy restaurant. After that we headed towards our
**Farmstay - Wild Acre**. The direction given by Mr. Mansoor is very
accurate and we reached without any trouble. The location is just back
of Coonoor bus stand and very well marked.

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-12-21-coonoor-acre-wild-coonoor1.jpg)](../images/2012-12-21-coonoor-acre-wild-coonoor1.jpg)

After putting our stuffs and a small introduction of the cheese and farm
and its produce from Deepak we went out to explore Coonoor. We went to
the botanical garden which has trees from all over the world. We must
admire those British for bringing tree or plant from faraway places and
making themselves feel at home far away from their motherland. Be it
Shillong (summer capital of Assam in British days) or Coonoor, they have
similarities with parks, lakes well planned roads in hills and old
British Bungalows. Coming back to the botanical garden, it is well
maintained but Indian common culture of eating and playing cricket
anywhere and everywhere within the park will surely take a toll slowly
on the green patches.

  

Aarush demanded to take a boat ride and as he was upset about leaving
RedHill behind ;   we managed to get our turn quickly as there was no
proper queue for boating. It took 10 minutes to complete the
paddling.And after some photo shoots of here and there we left the
botanical garden behind.

  

Next we drove through Wellington – a Indian Army Area. The whole area is
under Indian Army and they have officer training camp and many other
training facilities. Also there is a golf course which is really worth
its name. After driving cluelessly we headed back to Acre Wild. We went
down from our cottage to main dining area for dinner around 8 and
literally forced them to cook on time. The food was OK, the quality and
service was on the negative side. Though Mr. Monsoon appeared briefly
and promised he will join ; but after many minutes of waiting and as
food was getting cold we had our dinner and told them again and again to
keep the breakfast ready for next day on time.

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-12-21-coonoor-acre-wild-Coonoor-2.jpg)](../images/2012-12-21-coonoor-acre-wild-Coonoor-2.jpg)

Next day we woke up around 7.00am and took morning walk through the farm
and some picture shots of birds and surrounding scenic area before we
went for breakfast. The breakfast included freshly baked bread and farm
made cheese. It was much better than dinner we must admit. We met
another family from Bangalore who were visiting Coonoor for the second
time. We shared our previous night dinner experience and it seems they
had the same on their first night and opted for self prepared dinner.

  

We had a big plan to ride the World Heritage Blue rail from Coonoor to
Ooty and visit Ooty city and comeback. The railway station is a small
one and parking was a nightmare as there were many many taxi, vans
waiting for tourist coming in the peak of summer vacation. We booked the
ticket of 1st class train ticket. And Parking attendee told me to wait
and park once parking lots get little free after all passengers came to
Coonoor moves out. It sound simple but it was not so....it was too
congested and as I was driving backwards; scratched my bumper and
everyone was honking at me. In mean time, Pamela was calling to tell the
train is about to leave.

  

In that process I missed the train and had to drive from Connor to Ooty
while Aarush and Pamela went by train. Pamela & Aarush were really
upset, Aarush cried whole way thinking his dad was lost..... it was
total disaster.Now after driving from Conoor to Ooty (via the main
highway this time) was waiting at the railway station.  Pamela appeared
unhappy with the situation but looking at car dent she didn't had
anything else to say.

  

Having own car was bliss on other side, we reached botanical garden of
Ooty to start with but with rotten mood. This time parking was OK and as
we were taking a stroll within garden it started to rain. We took
shelter in the glass house.  After botanical garden we drove to Ooty
main market from there we came to Café Coffee Day for a break and it
rained again. Lucky us, we dodged the rain twice. We saw tourists
drenched in the sudden rain and shivering in cold.

  

We had a late lunch at XXX and bought the famous Ooty chocolate from
king's Star.

  

After that we went to Rose Graden, by this time we could feel the
chillness in Ooty’s air after the rain as day was coming to an end.
After taking a full round of the rose garden we headed back to Coonoor.
The Rose Garden is really big and has many varieties of rose from
Japanese green to black rose.

  

We bought some packets of Maggi before entering Acre Wild. It was
raining like dogs and cat as we had self prepared dinner. It was a day
which ended with high note as we had our car and saved from rain.

  

Next day the breakfast was again a disappointment as no cheese no fresh
bread. It was simple plain toast and omelet. Mrs. Mansoor joined us for
breakfast as both the guest were leaving for Banglore. May be she was
there to ensure we settled our bills properly or not. Any way **I would
not rate this place for hospitality**. They have functional kitchen,
clean bathroom and it is your choice to stay there or not. May be coming
out of a great hospitality of Red Hills our expectation was high as we
read many positive comments in travel forum and blogs.

  

Before heading back to Ooty we went around Wellington one more time.
Crossing Ooty with traffic reminded us of reality. Traffic police tried
their best to prevent us from going via the shortest route (36 hairpin
bend). But we convinced them we will drive slow and maintain 2nd gear
all along. Coming down a steep hill is always riskier than going up but
we just followed the rules mentioned on the road. We drove in 2nd gear,
no speeding, no overtaking and following lane.

  

We stopped Popeye's at Masinagudi, it is a fast food center with French
Fires and burgers & wraps. The place is clean and has a clean toilet the
food is decent and run by a lovely couple. What else to ask in the
middle of nowhere.

  

We came across few tuskers of forest department as we cross Masinagudi
jungle range. We did not stopped around Mysore and finally stopped at
Café Coffee Day for a refreshment.
