+++
title = "A magical gateway called - RedHill"
slug = "2012-09-26-a-magical-gateway-called-redhill"
published = 2012-09-26T22:15:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Tamilnadu", "Avalanche Lake", "Ooty lake", "Red Hill", "Ooty",]
+++
The drive to Ooty was thrilling with those 36 hairpin turns. We reached
the outskirt of the city and asked for direction to Emerald/Avalanche
and reached bypassing central Ooty town. We passed Ooty lake on Lake
Road and crossed Good Shepherd School, Fern Hill Road and at last drove
on Avalanche Road. The place ‘Avalanche’ gets its name as there was a
massive land slide in early 1800. From Emerald (after the bridge) we
took a left and the road condition continued to degrade as we crossed
Avalanche Lake. We called the Mr. Vijay few times just to ensure we are
on the right track, road is full of small stones and pebbles. It is easy
to start doubting oneself and its direction, as there no one to ask for
directions from. It is treat we enjoyed the pristine beauty of the
surroundings while ensuring not scraping bottom of my car.

  

When we started in the morning it was clear sky but the sky was getting
darker every hours. We were the only guest during lunch time, the food
was Indian freshly made and tasty. Post lunch it was dark sky as we
returned to our room for a siesta and it started to rain. It was a
pleasure to enjoy the rain only from the hill top. Rain made it even
more pristine with each leaves shining after talking bath. Once Aarush
woke up he found his newly found best friend waiting for him. It is
German Sheppard named Moby who is so friendly that after a while we were
not scared that Aarush was almost touching his teeth. While we were
having evening coffee we met another family. They were also from
Bangalore and we mingled up very well. This family of four had 2 boys
who became Aarush new hero. And adult had fun chatting while taking a
stroll. Aarush was happy as it was all boys and “Moby’ the German
Sheppard of Red Hill kept him busy.

  

At evening, temperature started to drop and we enjoyed a lovely
conversation in front of a working fire place. It is unimaginable when
whole India is basking with summer in Middle of April we are seating in
front a Fireplace. We planned for next day’s activity with our host.
Dinner served was continental - absolutely great one. After a long time
really had a true continental dish in home setting.

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-09-26-a-magical-gateway-called-redhill-sunrise-redhill.jpg)](../images/2012-09-26-a-magical-gateway-called-redhill-sunrise-redhill.jpg)

Next day we woke up at 5, big thanks to Pamela for her determination to
capture the Sun rise. We captured a perfect rise. After a good night
sleep and a healthy breakfast we were all set for the big hike. Mr.
Vijay arranged for the guide and we started to climb up. The climb was
steep but best part was Aarush walked most part himself. We took many
small breaks in between to look down at the lakes. After each climb the
view got better and effort worth it. From the peak you get a panoramic
view of lakes. When I uploaded picture from my mobile people commented
was it ‘Scotland’ ?

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-09-26-a-magical-gateway-called-redhill-hike-redhill.jpg)](../images/2012-09-26-a-magical-gateway-called-redhill-hike-redhill.jpg)

After climbing down and having our lunch we continued with chit chat.
Most times as time permitted Mr. & Mrs Vijay joined us. After evening
tea we left for Parsons Valley Dama and soundings. This time all the
guest travelled in Mr.Vijay’s Scorpio and the driver drove gently to
ensure spotting wild life. We spotted a herd of Sambar deer and black
color Nilgiri langur. They are just like normal grey langur in height
and etc. only deference is body color.

  

On the way back Aarush fall asleep after a full day of activities. And
we let him sleep as he was very tired from the long hike and continuous
running with Moby. We were joined by another couple from Bangalore where
the gentleman just came for a long hike next day as his preparation to
Mt. Everest base camp.

  

Next morning the sunrise was not perfect as it was covered by sun. Post
breakfast we were supposed to move out but for once we did not want to
leave this beauty of soundings and wonderful hospitability of Mr. Vijay.
And we lingered there enough and made a move to our next and last stop
‘Connor’ which is only

  

Even after months of this trip Aarush is still a big fan of him and
looking forward when he will go back to Red Hill.
