+++
title = "Bijapur-Chitradurga"
slug = "2013-01-02-bijapur-chitradurga"
published = 2013-01-02T15:25:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Chitradurga Fort", "Chitradurga", "Karnataka", "Gol Gumbaz", "Adil Shahi dynasty", "Onake Obavva", "Whispering gallery",]
+++
**Day-5,** Woke up at 4:30 in the morning as I could barely sleep whole
night. Had mu bath and got little bit packing down to ensure we leave
Bijapur at the earliest. Woke Pamela & Aarush around 5:30 and we started
to walk to Gol Gumbaz. Unfortunately the lady who manages the ticket
counter did not show up till 6:30. We were the first one to enter. After
the local guard gving us little more history lesson asked us to climb
the steps quickly before anyone. We climbed the seven story building
using medieval steps which gets steeper as you climb. Aarsush did a
great job of climbing all by himself. We were the only one at thw
whispering gallery and able to whisper between ourselves across the
hall. It is a amazing feeling of hearing the slightest of sound across
football field. But after 10 minutes of so we got lousy intruders and we
called it a go. Climbing down was more difficult at times.

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-01-02-bijapur-chitradurga-Bijapur-Chitradurga.jpg)](../images/2013-01-02-bijapur-chitradurga-Bijapur-Chitradurga.jpg)

Reaching hotel we had breakfast and Aarush and Pamela took shower and by
9 headed out for Bangalore. The drive was again on newly constructed
NH-13 and by 11 we reached Hospect. We did not stopped and continued
driving and by 13:30 reached Chitradurga. We first tried Hotel Aishwarya
Fort which was just a dignified bar bar and bar. We left it as me and
Aarush even could not use their rest room. We came to Naveen Regency
which was a pleasant surprise. The hotel was clean and there was no
drinking in the restaurant which made it more comfortable.

  

After a nice lunch we headed for ‘Chitradurga Fort’ – Chitra(picture)
durga(fort). This fort was built between 10-18th centuries by different
rulers and at last post independence it was part of Mysore dynasty
before handing over to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). As it was
weekday there were hardly any tourist there. Once we entered the fort
one guide approached us and after little bargain he agreed to be our
guide.

  

As the fort was built over many centuries it was like a mini town within
the fort itself. There are many layers of walls to cross to reach the
fort entry. To minimize any attack there are sharp turns, narrow but
strong doors which can withstand attack from charging elephants. We kept
on climbing as we explored the beauty and history. After a climb of
40/45 minutes we reached a plateau where there are the main temple and
swing area.

  

From there we again climbed down to go to the back side of the fort. The
back side of the fort is not that fortified. But it has natural
boundaries. And most attack on th fort has been on the front as the
accessibility is very poor. The attraction is “Onake Obavva”, where one
lady managed to kill many soldiers of Hyder Ali as they tried to enter
from the back. You can read it all here.(
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onake\_Obavva)

  

Now after many steps and ups and downs Aarush was tired and so are we. A
day of climbing steps with history which started in morning in Bijapur.
We started around 5 PM for Bangalore and did not make any stop as we
missed one decent Kamat near Tumkur L . The traffic was horrible as
usual and it got only worse as we approached home. We stopped at
McDonald just in-front of our home as Aaursh was not happy with this
trip at all .. all the temples .. daemons and mythological figures. Any
way it was a long drive on the last day but very much doable.
