+++
title = "Sharat -  when rains give way to the early autumn with blue skies, mid-August to mid-October."
slug = "2014-12-03-sharat-when-rains-give-way-to-the-early-autumn-with-blue-skies-mid-august-to-mid-october"
published = 2014-12-03T14:35:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Bangalore", "birthday", "parenting", "running",]
+++
Month of September 2014 was a unique one. It started like just another
month of the year.

  

Honestly it has 17th September which is most times ‘Bishwakarma Puja’
and Pamela’s B’day and that is how I remember it. From childhood
Bishwakarma puja has a special mention growing up in Tripura. After
Saraswati puja in January/February there was no major festival till
Bishwakarma Puja. And there used to pandals and people going out in the
evening to visit those pandals. Also soon after Bishwakarma Puja the
annual festival season starts where we celebrate Durga Puja and others.
And normally the weather would be great where monsoon is over and
climate were getting pleasant. 

  

But you ask about the weather for 2014 it is a mixed bag. The monsoon
was delayed in Bangalore there was hardly much rain during June and
July. The rain started to pick up in September and October and we had
2014 a one of the wettest year in recent time where there was traffic
chaos and what now when it rained heavily for few days in September and
October.

  

Personally was in a training plan to run my first Marathon(42.2KM) with
practice with maiden Bengaluru Marathon. But my training came to
grinding halt as suddenly things at family took a turn for worse. Pamela
had to rush to Durg to take care of her father who was sadly
hospitalized after a severe fall. Me and Aarush managed well in
Bangalore. It was bit of a driving as I had to drop him early in the
west of Bangalore and come to work in the east. 

  

  

End of September the price of IPhone 5 started to drop in Indian on-line
stores. Last year (2013) I also noticed the same for one phone which I
was willing to spend but ten realized the price starts to go up after
the initial offer. So this year I made no mistake and booked one IPhone
5s for 33K and there was some cashback offers from leading credit card
companies. Ironically the price of 5s now at 42K INR after the Iphone 6
came to market. Not sure who will buy a older product when the newer one
is not that far off. A person who is willing to spent 42K Sure will
justify a spent of 53K for the latest model. 

  

I am not an apple fan boy but have to admit the phone is what I was
looking for ? and loving it so far so good.

  

The Durga puja was a special one as we celebrated the same in Bangalore
with one of my beloved maternal-aunt and her family. So we have the
usual pendal hopping eating outside. The 3 days just flew away. 

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-12-03-sharat-when-rains-give-way-to-the-early-autumn-with-blue-skies-mid-august-to-mid-october-10711131_10152795461868470_7708311552882035105_n.jpg)](../images/2014-12-03-sharat-when-rains-give-way-to-the-early-autumn-with-blue-skies-mid-august-to-mid-october-10711131_10152795461868470_7708311552882035105_n.jpg)

Now with all that came my birthday which was a very simple affair as
things was not great again in Durg. And 4 days after that was Bangalore
marathon. I had to make a hard choice of either run a Half Marathon or
crawl a full marathon and after lot of deliberation I opted for the 1st
one. It was an wise decision as I was struggling with 26 KM after coming
back to running after an month. 

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-12-03-sharat-when-rains-give-way-to-the-early-autumn-with-blue-skies-mid-august-to-mid-october-1234375_10152801834383470_6365127152255977949_n.jpg)](../images/2014-12-03-sharat-when-rains-give-way-to-the-early-autumn-with-blue-skies-mid-august-to-mid-october-1234375_10152801834383470_6365127152255977949_n.jpg)

So here is my quick report on Bangalore Marathon. 

  

**<span style="font-size: large;">1:47:10 @ Avg 5:03!!</span>**

  

Enjoyed the race, did not had any target in mind at start other than
finishing strong. Enjoyed the run and went with family for the Charity
run after that. Here is my splits looks like if I practice well a 1:45
for HM in a good race is a possible target. Special thanks to
Kothandapani Sir and my extended family of PaceMakers. UNfortunately the
world media picked one news which was not great when lead pack of
runners lost race route. The race organizers were great who shared the
price money to these individuals in later days.

  

Thankfully I picked up long running again on the weekends and back to
30+KM on weekends but still a full marathon looks so daunting task.
