+++
title = "Day - 1  Maa Kamakhya here we come !!!"
slug = "2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come"
published = 2018-05-19T19:36:00+05:30
author = "Pamela Bhattacharya"
tags = [ "kamakhya", "assam", "guwahati", "road trip",]
+++
Guwahati Kamakhya  
  
The flight to Guwahati was too early in the morning from Bangalore and
we decided upon that on landing we will go directly to Kamakhya temple
before starting our trip. Kamakhya Temple is around 14KM from the
airport and our relatives stay on the other side of the city. It makes
sense to start the trip in an auspicious way and we tried to strike 2
birds with one.  
  
On D-day at the wee hours we three took shower, ensured all right
measures were taken from the kitchen to balcony for a long vacation. 
Pre Booked airport cab was a right choice as last time we did not have
so nice experience with Uber/Ola. Morning marathon is sometimes little
difficult when you are on vacation but it's all fine when you are bitten
by the travel bug.  
  
After security check-in we were seated in the lounge, talking and
watching people from different parts of the world and suddenly a call
came. After a very short talk, I looked at Santanu in order to know
whose call it was at that hour …."Ground Staff "calling to board the
plane…..quite surprised though. Were we really lost in watching people
and do they call personally on the phone,  as it's a silence
zone...Strange but feels good.  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come-31961685_10158206927239616_3383136878541668352_o.jpg)](../images/2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come-31961685_10158206927239616_3383136878541668352_o.jpg)

  
On boarding the flight we met surprisingly one of the friends and his
son on the same flight who were supposed to go with us to Shillong
initially but had to cancel due to last minute emergency. The father-son
duo was going just for a family function. We spoke two words and moved
on to our designated seat. After waking up so early, me and my son were
really hungry waiting for the breakfast which we have pre-ordered.
Santanu was first one and me in between dozed off but my son was
completely awake whole of the time.  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come-WhatsApp%2BImage%2B2018-04-19%2Bat%2B10.03.24%2BAM.jpeg)](../images/2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come-WhatsApp%2BImage%2B2018-04-19%2Bat%2B10.03.24%2BAM.jpeg)

In between, that friend of Santanu came and spoke to us for some time
about his family matters and even my son went to talk to his son. On
landing, we had a quick selfie and parted our ways. Santanu's cousin was
waiting outside for us with his car. 

  

Maa Kamakhya Temple which is situated on Nilachal hill and is one of the
oldest of the 51 Shakti Pithas.   Shakti Peethas are shrines or divine
places of the Mother Goddess. These are places have been blessed with
the presence of divinity due to the falling of body parts of the corpse
of Sati Devi, when Lord Shiva carried it and wandered in sorrow.  Now
out of  51, 4 are considered Adi(primary ) Shakti Pithas and Kamakhyais
one of them. The main temple is a cave of indeterminate age, with rock
steps leading down to the garbhagriha. According to Kalika Purana, the
site marks the spot where the yoni of the Goddess fell, and the hill
turned blue. The deity is represented by a representation of the yoni.
The temple has various sculptures around embedded in the walls not only
outside but inside also constructed during Aahom rule.

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come-IMG_20180419_125543-COLLAGE.jpg)](../images/2018-05-19-day-1-maa-kamakhya-here-we-come-IMG_20180419_125543-COLLAGE.jpg)

From regular families to politicians, foreign tourists to sadhus and
sanyasis, everyone wants to have a darshan. Its really difficult to make
your way through a bustling crowd but being a cloudy day with raining
lightly it was not crowded madly but enough for you to stand in a long
queue.  
  
On reaching the top, we were introduced to one known panda(priest) who
took care of us. We bought VIP tickets of 500 INR for both and were made
to sit in one room. In between and it started to drizzle more. After
waiting there for about 40 minutes we were made to join one line from
where it takes to the main temple. There are three kinds of queues in
Kamakhya - the ordinary one, the VIP one and lastly one for armed
forces.

  

We couldn't see much after our offering as it was raining and was
getting time for temple closure for **bhog** (mid-day offering to
Goddess). Santanu’s cousin drove us to Bhuvaneshwari temple from where
you can view entire Guwahati city and river Brahmaputra on a clear day.
But unfortunately, we couldn’t see much because of bad weather. We paid
our homage to the temple and quickly moved from there to our relatives'
house.  
  
By the time we reached was almost 3 PM, had late lunch and catch up with
them after long gap about the entire family. In the evening we went to
visit another relative who resides close by and had the plan to go for
dinner somewhere outside. But relatives seeing us after such long time
pampered us to the extent that we were almost full having no space for
dinner.  
  
Then seeing the time and weather we too decided to call off the day so
that next morning we can wake up early as well as fresh in order to
start our journey by road with our Zoom car.
