+++
title = "Day 2 - Shillong "
slug = "2018-05-21-day-2-shillong"
published = 2018-05-21T11:29:00+05:30
author = "Pamela Bhattacharya"
tags = [ "Shillong", "assam", "police bazar", "zoom car", "meghalaya", "road trip", "Umiam lake",]
+++
We started early morning with a drive to pick-up point of our rented
car. This place was in such an area where proper roads were not
there….it was full of potholes and filled with rainwater from previous
rains. One thing is there Guwahati inner roads are not great and even
city is not that clean...full of plastics. Anyways we zoomed out from
that place without much wastage of time and hit the highway.  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-32080320_10158206901939616_1616701127019986944_o.jpg)](../images/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-32080320_10158206901939616_1616701127019986944_o.jpg)

We were recommended to have breakfast on the way at Jiva resort but
which we could never find nor even any hoarding-related to that. This
Guwahati-Shillong road is very good because of which it hardly took
2-2.5 hrs to reach near Bada Pani (Umiam lake).  
  
**Umiam lake** when we reached it was a clear sky with no sun though.
Then we were looking forward to boating area so that we can go near the
lake. There was a sign for Umiam lake which we followed and it took us
to orchid lake resort and very close to it has a garden with boating
area. We decided to have a look at it first and then have breakfast. The
moment we reached there, we were followed by some gujju families
too...we did some photo session there. The serene lake is surrounded by
thick coniferous forests. One can take a long boat ride in the lake, and
adventure lovers can enjoy boating and various water-sports. There are a
few islands in the lake that can be used as pit-stops if one requires a
moment of rest while boating through the lake.  
  
We slowly proceed towards **Orchid Lake Resort** to have our breakfast.
We were offered with buffet breakfast which was 300 INR for adults.
Their dining hall has a high ceiling and at the centre, a fireplace for
winters or maybe night time. Dining Hall windows face towards lakefront
and their garden which is nicely maintained.  
  
We had our breakfast which was more of brunch and then took a tour of
their lake facing the garden and headed straight to Shillong road
towards the city. Our Google map guided us to through numerous twists
and turns of narrow lanes. On our very fast left turn we too such a
narrow cut that felt almost we would topple but the traffic police
smiled and signaled us to proceed ahead. it was a scary start for what
time coming next as we drive thourh twisted small roads.  
  
We were looking out for Happy-Valley which made us really unhappy at one
point of time that we gave up hope but somehow managed to reach army
area where we stopped to ask them about the area we were looking for.
Phone signal was pretty bad at that moment of time and even when it went
the person on other side was not responding so we were not sure to
proceed or stop there.  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-32075857_10158206921729616_3886101291482480640_o.jpg)](../images/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-32075857_10158206921729616_3886101291482480640_o.jpg)

For civilians all Assam Regiments look the same, so with a lot of
confusion in mind, we went down the hill where it seems there is another
base camp which is having the guest room we were looking for. On
reaching there, we got the phone signal we were looking forward. Then on
entering our next job was to find the guest house but looks like we
ended up in some official area which was deserted. After a while, we
could locate someone who guided us with one jawan to our room.  
  
We were introduced to our room buddy, who was so kind.  
* ”Sir, Would you like to have something for lunch”*  
NO (we are too full to have any)  
*“Sir, if you have any problem or complaint, related to anything, please
first contact me”.*  
We were surprised to hear that but we smiled and replied: “ Don’t worry
we are fine.”  
  
We were actually taken back to see the room with slipper, comb, razor
etc. with a proper kitchen where one can cook too for themselves if
needed.  
  
As the day became more & more brighter we decided to go for city tour
but in meantime, our host called to know our whereabouts and our plan.
As we said our plan he proposed to take his army gypsy to police bazar
to avoid parking and entry through their gates which will need
permission again. By the time he came personally to check if everything
was fine with us or not.  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-2018-04-20-16_10_03.JPG)](../images/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-2018-04-20-16_10_03.JPG)

In the meanwhile, his gypsy came and we left for police bazaar which was
as usual crowded. The driver stopped us near the square and asked us to
call once done to which we agreed upon. We strolled through the street.
From young to old, the woman looks dazzling, dressed in their
traditional attire (**jainsem**), which they pair with matching
cardigans and heels. The street was busy with cozy cafes, restaurants
and small umbrella shops and varieties of footwear. Side road was busy
with their black ***Maruti 800 cab*** (public transport). We walked
towards **Ward’s Lake** which is closer to Governor's house. This lake
also has a cafeteria and a Botanical Garden, we paid entry fees and then
crossed one wooden bridge which takes to another side of the lake. It's
nice to watch people boating and feeding fish.  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-31958656_10158206910399616_1915279668525662208_o.jpg)](../images/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-31958656_10158206910399616_1915279668525662208_o.jpg)

  
We took the privilege of perfect evening sunlight and did time pass
photography all over the garden. This garden has a lot to offer in terms
of floral bed, bamboo trees and cobbled pathway, nicely manicured
plants. As we strolled around, we too started feeling hungry and as the
sun was going further west we decided to move back to police bazar area
for some light snacks.  
  
[![](../images/thumbnails/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-32083874_10158206915614616_2452425192144633856_o.jpg)](../images/2018-05-21-day-2-shillong-32083874_10158206915614616_2452425192144633856_o.jpg)We
went to Grover's eatery, which was right at the corner on the first
floor of the shopping complex. It has nice decor tastefully done but
takes time for food to reach the table. After having some soups and
momos we left from there as we had to go to our host's place for
dinner.  
  
We had a nice evening with soothing music in the background. Mrs. Nayyar
pampered us with an elaborate spread of starters and main course. It was
really nice of (colonel) Mr. and Mrs.Nayyar to host us. We deeply
appreciate their role and thanks them from bottom of our heart to be
part of our memorable journey.  
  
**Stay: At Army Basecamp**
