+++
title = "Rome (Sep 5th-7th)"
slug = "2003-09-15-rome-sep-5th-7th"
published = 2003-09-15T09:08:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "road", "Italy", "piazza", "airport", "italian renaissance",]
+++
[![](../images/2003-09-15-rome-sep-5th-7th-rome-2003.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/sets/72157638374352504)

We wanted to visit all the top attractions of Italy in one trip but due
to vacation time (for Parisians) and taking off from work and with
Pamela's school we could not do. So, we planned for only **Rome**. We
flew with Alitalia from CDG this time in early morning. It was much
better than Ryan Airlines in terms of access to the airport. But the
initial fun started when just before checking-in we have to run 3
terminals to collect our tickets from Air Traffic office. But other than
that running, every thing was smooth. Luckily, we had nothing to
check-in.

  

We started our days visit from **Colosseum** - just to check if all
gladiators have gone home or not. I still do not know how to express my
feelings about this magnificent achievement of mankind and engineering,
which dates at least 2000 years back. After having lunch we walked along
**Via del Corso** from Colosseum to Roman Forum and all the major
attractions to **Fontana di Trevi** which refers to the three roads.
Needless to say, the famous custom-*to throw a coin into the fountain
over your shoulder to ensure you return to Rome. A second coin will have
you falling in love with an Italian, and the third marrying him or her*.
But we didnot took a trial. Anywayz, on the way we got the taste of
traffic rules of Rome. From there we walked towards **Spanish Steps
(Piazza di Spagna)** with all the big brand designers shops around it.
After strolling at **Piazza del Popolo** square we walked to the top of
the hill towards **Pincio** - a nice garden to take some time off under
shady trees. From here we went to **Pantheon** via **Piazza Navona**
another city square with fountain of four rivers and Egyptian obelisk in
the middle. WOW !!! extraordinary dome of pantheon is the largest
masonry vault ever built. Its really magnificent to see that. Finally,
after hectic day of walking day long we decided to move towards
Metro-Colosseum for our hotel.

  

Second day, we planned to visit opulence of the **Vatican**. So, started
with Vatican museum and went to Sistine Chapel. It is must if you want
to see the work of **Michel Angelo and Raphael** the great artists of
Italian Renaissance. Better start this way as museum gets closed early
around 2PM. From there we went to **St. Peters Basilica** the main
Vatican church. We went to the top; the lift takes up to 3rd floor which
is quite at height and from there it is 320 stairs more for the top. The
view from the top was *worth* with those narrow stairs.

  

Last day, we spent again the whole day for one more last time in ancient
Rome. We went inside of **Colosseum and Roman Forum and the Palatine
Hill**. Those big structures with columns still standing just as it use
to be really takes you back to history. After doing a final round of
walk which included a late lunch close to Pantheon and walking towards
**Piazza del Popolo** on Sunday when most of the road is taken by
pedestrians we decided to pack-up. That road is really crowded and you
need to watch your belongings that time. And, thus our trip to **eternal
city** came to an end.

.
