+++
title = "Seville - Spain"
slug = "2005-05-24-seville-spain"
published = 2005-05-24T18:32:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "desserts", "people", "market", "Spanish cuisine", "calcutta", "Spain", "Cathedral of Seville", "Bridge of Triana", "Seville", "food", "road", "dessert", "Paella",]
+++
[![](../images/2005-05-24-seville-spain-cath-seville.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/11231786934/in/set-72157638399148036)I
should have started jotting down all my memories from this beautiful
city immediately after my return to Paris. But back to work and daily
routine.... lots of finer moments are fading off.

  

We took a morning bus from Granada to Seville; we reached Seville around
11AM. The bus ride was around 2 hours and 45 minutes. From that
IntercityBus stop to our hotel (again Novotel) we took again local
public bus. But we got down 2 stops before the actual stop which ended
up with a walk along the nice boulevard of Seville.

  

As we reached before afternoon there was no non-smoking room available
to us. So left our luggage & went to a Mall next to our hotel.We had our
lunch that day at McDonald which is really a restaurant where you don't
feel like you are eating 99 cent burgers. Hmm..........money well spent
for the interior decoration of this McDo, may be one of those new one
where McDo is fighting back to win its market share.

  

We started our sightseeing around 5PM after fresh up with the Cathedral
of Seville which has its entry in ‘Guinesses book of world Records'. Its
really BIG we had been to Vatican (Rome) and St. Paul in London but this
one is really special. All the money, gold, silver and what not poured
from New-World shows its mark. May be like those of Birla Temples of
India - more the money bigger and whiter it is with marble . But any way
I am not going to question human’s faith and its relation with God like
poet Shri. Harivansh Rai Bachchan. The treasury collection is awesome.
The craftsmanship of wood, marble, glass and others are really superb.
There are so many things inside to pay attention to. The Bell tower is
the only remain from the old mosque on which this cathedral was built
after the moors were defaulted.

  

[![](../images/2005-05-24-seville-spain-santa-cruz.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/11231806986/in/set-72157638399148036)

Getting out of Cathedral, we walked on Santa Cruz district. It is the
old part of the city. The lanes are really narrow; some of them reminded
me of Vanaras and Calcutta. It has special purpose: as the houses are so
close they do not get sunlight that much which makes them cooler than
the new city. There are lots of nice little parks and patios with orange
trees one of the speciality of Andalusia. These trees serves the purpose
of shade as it has got very dense leaves. But we were told these oranges
are very bitter .

  

The evenings are really special in Seville when every body is out to
take a stroll. It is really nice to enjoy watching people while sipping
something cooler and biting tapas.This city is very lively & warm
too.Here, temperature is very high in afternoon around 40C & it cools
down by evening 7-8PM with a cool breeze.

  

In the evening we ended up walking on the Bridge of Triana after passing
the bull fight Arena. We had Paella for dinner. Paella is a rice-based
speciality which is laced with saffron, paprika and can contain
intriguing morsels of seafood, meat and vegetable.It was almost midnight
but there were lots of people even toddlers along with their parents on
the side walk.

  

While walking back toward the bus stop for hotel we came across a
resturant with lots of tempting , mouth watering desserts kept near the
window on the road side. As this place was too crowded with locals &
tourists we didnot found any place to sit & have dessert.But, we were
also no less... we managed to get two chairs to sit & ordered for the
same(just imagine how tempting it could be that without table & proper
arrangment we had our dessert).Anyway, we enjoyed it very
much.....something we can never forget.
