+++
title = "Welcoming 2007"
slug = "2006-12-31-welcoming-2007"
published = 2006-12-31T05:17:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "My Diary", "new year", "resolution", "Bush", "Saddam Hussein", "polictics",]
+++
Well Saddam Hussein is dead so what is next for 2007? May be there will
be very few asking this questions as they start to celebrate New Year
tomorrow. I never ever thought that I will comment upon politics on our
blog. But I think I break that rule today.

Everyone taking stock of year that is almost over. I personally do not
like the week “from Christmas to New Year”, I do not have a solid reason
for the same. I just do not find a reason from my inner soul to
celebrate the same.

Starting from Y2K something or other has happened and dampened my
parting spirit. I will like to list them here.

-   1999/Y2K was special as I was on alert being an I.T guy.
-   2001/2002 I realized the hard reality of lay-off as my close
    co-workers were asked to go. Always these layoff happens in the last
    week of December ?
-   2002/2003 More co-workers joined the old group and my work location
    was getting closed. 31st December was their last day at work, holy
    crap what next for New Year?
-   2003/2004 Nothing special – hanged out for 30 minutes or so on
    Champ-Elysees in Paris. Lots of confused, drunken, yelling people
    around. Later in the night it got worst. 26th December Earthquake in
    Iran, lots and lots of people died.
-   2004/2005 – Pamela was in India; hanged out with Murali – who was
    not in a happy mode either, a cold winter night in Paris. What a
    nightmare Tsunami in South-East Asia struck on 26th December.
-   2005/2006 – Best of the last few years spent in center of Vedanta
    Ramakrishna,Paris with other people. Nothing much happened around
    the globe. It was spiritual and enlightening.
-   2006/2007 – Well alone again; And the news of Saddam did dampened my
    mood to write the post. I am not a fan of him but I do not support
    death penalty.

As I write this post - I would like to remind you of those 10 Trillion
dollars budget surplus America (USA) was supposed to have is long
forgotten debate in NPR (national public radio). I did have my $300 tax
refund for Year 2002. But I think world was happier place before.I
sometime think this is my craziness to care about all these. But with so
many death and destruction what did Mr. Bush achieved????

I wish I could question to those who in their ignorance, arrogance,
religious (including gun, gas) voted for him twice to make this world a
better place. A common American must understand his or her voting power
as world super power and true democracy of the world. Probably this part
of advice they dislike most and proved it :S

Well enough said, the blame goes to other politicians and nations as
well as they did not oppose at all about what is going in Iraq. May be
the responsibilities lies with us as well as individually I did nothing
to make world a better place. I hope there is an end to the blood-shed
in Middle-East - it might spread all across the region in 2007.

Well Happy New Year. Sorry for being cynical.
