+++
title = "Deja Vu"
slug = "2006-05-10-deja-vu"
published = 2006-05-10T21:25:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Paris", "picture", "drive",]
+++
I am not sure if you happened to experience a very low probability
situation or event in life which you can compare with [winnnig a
lottery](http://www.skinnerconsulting.com/english/Lottery.html) or
getting struck by thunder. Statistically the second one has more chance.
To explain the same I take to you to recent past...

I had that bizarre experience in the month on December while returning
from work took [a
bus](http://blog.santm.com/image_article/175.pdf "175 Bus Paris Route plan").
There was one gentleman very well groomed of dark complexion And I met
the same person next day (Saturday) in [a different
bus](http://blog.santm.com/image_article/72.pdf "Bus PC1 Paris Route Map")
while going out. I could not believe myself as that person did get down
well ahead of me. And I do not recollect that person from my earlier
experience of three years when I used the same bus. I do not deny
finding the same faces in my bus. But that is while going towards the
same direction at almost same time.

Now coming back today; I found yesterday around 10:30 PM (Paris Time)
some one posted in a web groups of having some mock test for the exam I
was taking today with
[Prometric](http://www.prometric.com/ "Prometric"). So I sent a
desperate email to him asking for eleventh hour help if he can share the
same. And to my utter surprise he sent it and I passed the exam while
taking it at home.

When I started my test at the computer to my utter surprise all the
questions and their respective options were excatly the true copy of
what I received in the morning. It was **deja vu** & I passed with 100%
score.

Well it was a big luck or mercy of God. Its a mere chance of finding
that web forum in 11th hour and that person really replies with help. He
could have been on vacation or could have crashed his hard drive or my
question set could be a real hard one :( but it just happened :D

This is just another reason I do not like too much stress on
certification on resume as it sometimes might give you a wrong picture
about the person strength and skill sets when you evaluate his/her
resume. Now a days all big companies are making big bucks on
certifications and all the head-hunters are asking for the same.
