+++
title = "Italian aroma…"
slug = "2006-08-01-italian-aroma"
published = 2006-08-01T16:26:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "pesto sauce", "Paris", "Spinach", "picture", "Bon Appetite", "car", "food", "rain",]
+++
**"Daney Daney Pey likha hain khaney waley kaa naam"**- which
colloquially means each grain has the name of the person who will eat it
(it is the fortune of the person to have certain meal or not). Well the
same with more of spice in Hindi movies **"goli goli pey likha hain
marney waley kaa naam"** which means in each bullets it is written the
name of the person who will die.

Before I take you along this blog I will try my best to keep the
suspense why the introduction to a culinary adventure got its
inspiration from *Hindi muhavra & bollywood film*.

Today we tried to prepare a Pasta dish bit different from our normal
standard. Initially, Pamela did not showed much of interest maybe due to
bit long procedure... must have thought to leave on me. But at the end,
she seems to have willy-nilly enrolled in Italian cuisine and did all
the steps to prepare this awesome dish - *recipe to die for without
killing for*.

**Spinach and Ricotta Conchiglie** - Conchiglie which means *large pasta
conch* (a kind of shell) designed to hold delicious stuffing in our case
it was mixture of chopped spinach and ricotta cheese. Having concave
shapes they are one of the most useful shapes as they trap any sauce.
Till far we have prepared-long pasta like *spaghetti*, spiral shaped
*fusilli*, butterfly shaped *farfalle*, stuffed *ravioli* either with
fresh crème sauce, tomato sauce or pesto sauce. Even we have tried flat
pasta *lasagna* designed to be baked between layers of sauce.

[Pasta](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/pasta) is one of the staple food of
every authentic Italian meal & most versatile food too. It is considered
to be low-fat food and rich in complex carbohydrate. But, it is
important to take care while choosing sauce as overloading it with
cheese or cream sauce will change pasta into high-fat food and of course
the number one rule of great Italian cuisine is **fresh is best**.

Actually, prima facie on the colorful picture of the recipe in the book
on **Vegetarian** by [Nicolas
Graimes](http://blog.santm.com/2006/07/yum.html), drew my attention and
I thought why not to try it. Well, with out going to reveal the secret
of this recipe here are the pictures as the cooking progressed. In other
words, let me try to limn an entire procedure through photos taken by
me. Hope silence speaks the volume in that way I will not be infringing
coyright as *Pamela did in previous post.*

Finally, the suspense-what made me wrote “*Daney Daney Pey .... naam*” -
is actually I invited one French friend (*person who taught us to
prepare any pasta* ) for dinner and due to some miscommunications he did
not showed up. So, it was two of us who had our mouth-watering
irresistable pasta, supple in texture and deliciously sauced and stuffed
(bit of boasting on my part may-be). But truly, it came out so good that
we two were left licking and relishing every morsel. It would have been
our pleasure to share a meal with our friend :( but surely next time :)

[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-1.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-1.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-2.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-2.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-3.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-3.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-4.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-4.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-5.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-5.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-6.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-6.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-7.jpg)](../images/2006-08-01-italian-aroma-pasta-step-7.jpg)
