+++
title = "Siena"
slug = "2007-11-25-siena"
published = 2007-11-25T20:22:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "street", "nap", "market", "siena", "taxi", "baptistery", "tuscan region", "duomo", "piazza del campo", "road", "Italy", "piazza", "car",]
+++
There are plenty of places to explore in Tuscan region from Florence as
day trip. We decided to visit **Siena** which is only one hour. Reason
for choosing Siena was for its medieval beauty; in that era Siena and
Florence were at war when Florence defeated Siena.

Travel by road through Tuscan region is really amazing as you cross
those post-card hills. But exhausted from yesterdays walking on the
cobble stone roads of Florence I dozed as soon we hit the highway that
made Santanu bit furious as he couldn’t share those moments.

  

Bus dropped us near to city center from where we visited top-sights –
**Piazza del campo** square (city hall, museum, bell tower) and
cathedral (with a baptistery, cathedral museum and viewpoint) of
medieval town with twisting alleyways.

Siena’s city square (unique shell shaped piazza) is huge and it is the
main landmark; only accessible by feet or taxi. There are lots of
leather shops along **Via di Citta** (Main Street). Besides, there are
numerous other shops and restaurants lined against the narrow lane which
we found outrageously priced and too crowded with tourists. We walked
along that street and had mouth-watering pizza for lunch in one
resturant.

  

Siena’s cathedral is outstanding with black and white marble columns and
dazzling mosaics on the floor. Do not miss the magnificent Bernini
statue of **Mary Magdalene** (does this bell a ring from *Da Vinci’s
Code*?) hidden away in a niche of marble. Duomo is unfinished as you can
see the half constructed outer wall. inside every possible inch of wall,
ceiling and floor has been decorated. Adjoining the cathedral is the
Piccolomini library which is also must.

Later, we walked to **San Domenico (Basilica Cateriniana)** with
delicate and soft gelatos in our hand. This is a huge gothic church with
minimalistic design so there is no fancy marble works or any thing.

Finally, we walked back to the bus stop (to Florence) with my eyes wide
open this time.

At morning we crossed famous open market of Florence. But unfortunately,
in the morning we were too early and in evening we were too late.
