+++
title = "Viva Goa - Day 4"
slug = "2007-04-18-viva-goa-day-4"
published = 2007-04-18T04:12:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "road", "market", "beach", "bikes", "chocolate", "transport", "dessert", "taxi", "Goa", "sea food", "food",]
+++
![](../images/2007-04-18-viva-goa-day-4-motorcycle-taxi.jpg)

As we couldn’t enjoy much earlier day we decided to opt for rented bike
and move around in our own pace. Rented a bike for 2 days for 400
Rupees. One thing which is very interesting about Goa’s motorcycle taxi
locally known as **pilots** ideal for nipping between beaches or for
short distances. Bonafide operators ride black bikes with yellow
mudguards and white number plate. These vehicles transport a single
pillion rider. (Photo credit: from GoaBlog.org)

As usual after breakfast we headed towards Anjuna beach. Anjuna is
gorgeous with its rocky shore and mighty cliffs where you can hear of
techno-thumping sounds and see hippies around. With morning sun and
plenty of time at hand we made this **[special
sign](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2007/goa/beaches/goa)** to
remember Goa. Vagator, however, is the perfect hideaway spot with its
few beach shacks and fishing boats off in the distance. Black lava
rocks, the coconut palms, the lush green landscape, nature playing its
own music, and the sea turning from aquamarine to emerald green with
Chapora Fort at its background. The reminiscence of the old Portuguese
times giving a splendid view of the sea and hills covered with coconut
trees and rice fields. To reach middle and little Vagator one needs to
walk *but the calmness worth the effort as big Vagator gets bus loads of
Indian whiskey drinking male tourist*.

At noon, sun is really hard to tolerate but for lunch, we made sure to
have exotic flavour of the Goan dishes at whatever cost. So, we searched
hard to find one place called **“Gabriel”** recommended by our guidebook
as an authentic goan cooking. It was really worth searching.

For most Goans three basic necessities – fish, curry and rice. Goan
values their food as much as they do their daily siesta. In their daily
meal, seafood always has a pride of place in some or other form. From
fried fish to exotic concoctions; sea food is usually a must on the
menu, except for the occasional break for some religious observance.
Besides fresh seafood, dried and salted fish dishes are also highly
prized by Goans.

![](../images/2007-04-18-viva-goa-day-4-green-chicken.jpg)

We ordered **Galinha com Coentro** (chicken with fresh coriander leaves
and vinegar) and prawn curry with rice. It was really fresh, home –made
and scrumptious. Owner was friendly; had chit-chat with him. We figured
out it was guest-house cum restaurant with lots of shady trees around
and not far from sea. Sitting arrangement is in the garden under trees
with fan. Since it was shady we spent 2 hours there and at last we were
offered yummy chocolate (European one after a long time).

In the evening we prepared ourselves for soaking at Baga beach; smeared
well with body-oil. As on day two we found that sand was very fine and
it gets stick to the body like glue even after proper shower. So,
smearing oneself helps as sand can’t stick to the body and washes off
with each roaring waves.

![](../images/2007-04-18-viva-goa-day-4-cake.jpg)

At evening we went to Tibetian market right across our resort where
Santanu bought one finger-ring for himself and then headed for dinner at
Baga-Calangute road to one nice restaurant. Wanted to taste one goan
dessert for last 3 days; since we were not left with an inch place in
stomach we could not but today made sure to eat less so that we can
taste it. For dessert best is **“[Infantaria
Pastelaria](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2007/goa/mixed/infantanria)”**
recommended again by our guidebook which was again right across our
resort where we bought **Bebinca** – a layered pudding.
