+++
title = "Remembering Belgium"
slug = "2007-09-17-remembering-belgium"
published = 2007-09-17T05:31:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Belgium", "people", "shopping", "chocolate", "thalys", "atomium", "comic strip art", "grote markt", "Stories", "food", "antwerp", "manneken pis", "wedding ring", "mini europe", "tintin", "brussels", "diamond ring", "rain",]
+++
While categorizing our old travelogs I found there was no post on
**[Belgium](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2003/brussels)**
which values a lot for me. As I go down the memory lane......year 2003,
within 2 ½ months of marriage we have to move to Paris from US which was
a big change for me. Apart from the cultural shock, language was immense
barrier for day today life as well to mingle up with people around. Not
only that, in Indian arrange marriage, it takes time to understand each
other with each one's weaknesses and failings. So, quite an adjustment
in every way. Somehow, in milieu of all this I lost embedded stone from
my *wedding ring* given from Santanu’s family. Because of which I
couldn’t wear for long. And everyone use to consider me **Mademoiselle**
even in presence of Santanu (*thinking him to be mon am*i) which I use
to enjoy a lot.

Well, it triggered Santanu and he asked me to wear something in
replacement but since I didn’t had any extra ornament with me that time
I couldn’t. So, I asked him casually one day why don’t you gift me one
*diamond ring* which he accepted easily. Very surprising to me in
contrary to other married people (men) but I never took that very
seriously. And it never came in our conversation. But somehow it got
rooted in his sweet heart.

In our very first trip to Amsterdam he came up with this topic on
diamond ring seeing diamond shops around but somehow we could not
make-up our mind. And it became like ***“raat gayi baat gayi”.***

[![](../images/2007-09-17-remembering-belgium-belgium-brussels.jpg)](http://www.santm.com/gallery3/index.php/2003/brussels)

Then one fine morning while checking the accounts I found that some
money has been withdrawn for buying rail ticket – bit surprising which I
was never told. I gave call to Santanu to figure out for which he
hesitated at first. On repenting said *“a wife should not be told about
bank account no.”* and said it was surprise to you for your **b’day** –
*a trip to Belgium*.

And at same evening after returning from his office he said to do
research on Antwerp – for diamond. My GOD I was really taken a back for
a minute that he took things so seriously. Thus, we planned for one
night, two day stay at Belgium.

![](../images/2007-09-17-remembering-belgium-TGV.jpg)

Train ticket was too cheap; we left early morning train by **Thalys -
bullet train** and on reaching Brussels checked-in our pre-booked hotel.
And immediately after break-fast left for **Antwerp** which is a hour
ride by train. Antwerp’s diamond district is close to the Central
Station. It’s said that Antwerp is famous for trading, cutting and
polishing diamonds. We strolled from store to store then finally decided
to buy one.

Then we walked towards down-town which was quite animated considered as
heart of city. *Grote Markt* is beautifully surrounded by the Town Hall
and decorative guild houses dating from the 16th and 17th century. In
the middle of the 'Grote Markt' stands the **Brabo fountain**. One of
the most pleasant squares in the city as traffic has been banned in this
part. Being small place nothing much to explore. So, by evening we
returned to Brussels.

On reaching Brussels, we walked towards magnificent central square,
**Grand Palace** which boasts the country's finest baroque guildhalls,
popular pavement cafes and intimate restaurants. Hidden at the core of
the old town, it's only revealed as you enter the narrow side alleys
surrounding the square. Had dinner in near-by Indian restaurant where
food was too blend to make locals happy.

**Day: 2**

![](../images/2007-09-17-remembering-belgium-ring_diamond.jpg)

Next day, we were ready to explore Brussels. So first went to
**Atomium** which represents molecules with 9 atoms. This huge 9 balls
are interconnected with escalators.

**TIP:** Worth only if you want a panoramic view of Brussels.

Close to it is **Mini Europe** with models of main highlights of all
European countries like Eiffel tower, acropolis etc which we skipped as
we already had a plan to explore other European countries during our
stay at Paris.

From here we went to Comic Strip Art museum which houses famous
**Tintin** and Smurfs where we spent quite a time as Santanu being one
of the admirer of Tintin. Then we went towards **Galeries St Hubert**
lined with cafes, theatres and luxury stores. It has gorgeous glass
roofed arcade worth to see if only this is the first place of trip in
Europe. Then we walked towards little boy peeing **“Manneken Pis"** -
one of the Brussels landmark with different stories behind it. It seems
it has around 800 costumes displayed at Brussels museum. **Town hall**
(hotel de ville) was our next spot with needle-like crooked spire close
to Grand place which is very vibrant.

![](../images/2007-09-17-remembering-belgium-belgian_chocolate.jpg)

**TIP:** If you intend to do any other shopping remember Brussels is
known for lace boutiques and chocolates.

For us enough of shopping…now time to pack up. I wish there was some way
to show my gratitude to my beloved hubby for this trip and expensive
gift on PERFECT event which I cherish even after 4 years.
