+++
title = "Sale"
slug = "2007-08-06-sale"
published = 2007-08-06T15:39:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "people", "picture", "nap", "shopping", "orchard road", "Singapore", "sale", "reading", "road", "Wal-Mart", "drive", "car", "weekend", "letter",]
+++
A four letter word of our modern consumerism; like all other 4 letters
words this is very commonly used.

The first time I was introduced to this was back in USA on Labor Day
weekend (1st week of September-’98). In **US**, every long weekend
brings a **SALE**. Size of weekend supplement of news-paper increases
with advertisement from cars to toys. Not only that even you get
constant reminder from Macy’s to Wal-mart on your radio while you drive
your car.

In **France or continental Europe**, it is different; the retail store
only has two sales in a year normally for cloths. In July, it is to
clear spring and summer collections and get ready for autumn and winter
while in February to make room for summer. But never happen to notice
for car or computer; may be I was not looking for car.

Now, when I reached **Singapore**, two weeks before big summer sale was
going on. One such place is Orchard Road which is known for its retail
and entertainment centre. This **Orchard Road** is flanked by malls
(houses brand boutiques), restaurants, cafe, nightclubs and hotels This
picture was taken inside of *Takashimaya* -the famous Japanese super
store.

  

Reading the article in **Wikipedia** it became clear why there are so
many sign on the side-walk with fruits it seems it used to be fruit
orchards in 1800s. Well, people say the same about bay area where there
was Orchard once -around 1960ies before it became Silicon Valley.
