+++
title = "Florence"
slug = "2007-11-24-florence"
published = 2007-11-24T20:20:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = []
+++
Yesterday, late evening when we reached Florence it was drizzling and
continued raining during the night. We got up to find grey sky - a very
big disappointment compared to last few days as we had picture perfect
blue sky. We also had to take out light jackets as temperature dropped.
The hotel we stayed was not great but it was clean and functional in the
centre of city even we could see the dome of famous cathedral from our
hotel room window.

Florence was capital of Italian Renaissance so planned to visit famous
**Uffizi** and **Accademia dell’Arte**. We started with the later one as
it was next to our hotel. But we were surprised to find a long queue at
8.00 AM. We had to use even umbrella in between but those rain did not
deter anyone in the queue as all were waiting with patience for their
turn to enter.

Photography is completely prohibited inside; there are too many security
personal who try their best to stop you as soon as you remove lens cap
off your camera. Although flash photography is not allowed but still
cameras flash and whispering sound you can hear. Some art students try
to sketch at corners. He (David) looks really magnificent; recently
celebrated his 500th birthday. Besides him there are numerous other art
objects to explore.

> **TIP:** Only if you are interested in visiting David and Slaves then
> must otherwise there is no point to explore as not worth the entrance
> fee.

  

We walked to **Piazza del Duomo (Cathedral)** after that. The cathedral
of Florence needs lots of words to explain its beauty of architecture;
marble works on the wall and floor. You can spend days to gather details
of those fine craftsmanship. The top of the cathedral (dumo) is really
big and it’s an engineering marvel when such huge dome was created
without using any steel. The famous **“last judgment”** is there but
looking long at that one might hurt your neck. Outside in the corner
there is **Battistero di San Giovanni** which is considered oldest
building and in front there is “gate of paradise” which inspired
**Rodin** to create his **“gate of hell”**.

  

Nucleus of Florence is very animated and pedestrian friendly. Top
attractions are minutes apart by walking. **Piazza della Signoria**
(a.k.a. **Palazzo Vecchio**) is one of the main squares of Florence.
Once upon a time original David stood here along with other numerous
sculptures before moving to his current home.

  

We decided to take Renaissance walk towards **Ponte Vecchio** through
town centre. On the way we bought advance ticket for Uffizi museum.
Ponte Vecchio is the oldest and most famous bridge over the **Arno
River**; the only bridge to survive WW2 air bombing. This bridge is
lined with jewelery shops connecting Uffizi to the old Medici palace.

It was time for lunch so we walked into a restaurant without thinking
much and found it was white table clothed one. Surprisingly, the prices
were not enormous like other tourist places. We tried pasta which they
served with freshly baked bread; WOW I still lick my lip for.

After that great meal we crossed Arno but we did not went to **Piazzale
Michelangelo** or other attraction like **Boboli Gardens** from there
you get very good view of Florence but we skipped that.

  

Instead we went to Church of **Santa Croce**; which have monumental
tombs of **Galileo, Michelangelo, Machiavelli, Dante**, and many others.
Though Duomo is not very far this is the every day church for locals.
There is a minimal fee to enter as tourists with free access to other
parts inside the building. There is a leather factory run by the church
where you get beautiful stuff without hassles of bargain. The inside
garden (cloister) is calm and lush green. Besides, this in surrounding
areas they have lot of leather shop.

> Tip: good place to buy fashionable leather jacket.

  

Took a bus to railway station to visit another famous church **Santa
Maria Novella,** but we found it closed. This also contains numerous art
works. At last, at day end we went back to our hotel to freshen up and
then while we were looking for restaurants were greeted **Buonasera!!!**
to one of true Italian restaurant. Here we had Tuscan speciality at one
of the small, neat and hunted by locals. Worth saying gracias.

> **Tip:** It’s better to reserve in advance for museums (preferably by
> internet to avoid long queue) although its bit costly but saves time.
> Louvre museum also have plenty of renaissance work so if you are from
> Paris you can save money by visiting on months first Sundays (free
> entrance).
