+++
title = "Visit to North kerala- Wayanad"
slug = "2009-04-12-visit-to-north-kerala-wayanad"
published = 2009-04-12T06:04:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Kerela", "ente vedu", "wayanad", "mysore", "road trip", "homestay",]
+++
From the time Santanu having classes and top of it exams this month; its
really a grueling month for both of us. For this I too was not getting
some time off from “Our little one”. There was absolute need of one
break. Santanu suddenly said two days before last exam that he is having
leave and if interested then we can go somewhere near by. Then he only
started reading on net and ended up saying we would go to
**[WAYANAD](http://wayanad.nic.in/)- Northern region of Kerala**. Word
of mouth were the major sources of procuring information for undertaking
the trip. Being at Bangalore, Wayanad was a good option since it was
only about a **275 KM** drive away. Earlier he said he will go via
**Nagarhole** forest and return via **Bandipur** forest. My major
concern was about our stay. As with Aarush if we don't look for proper
place then journey is not peaceful.

We looked for two homestays one near **Nagarhole** and other near
**Sultan Bethary**. Looking does not means that we will stay there but
then also we sincerely jotted them in MS- word with phone no. and all. I
wanted to be sure where I am spending night otherwise I am not going
anywhere. At that time he said we will do night stay at Mysore and then
early morning we will leave for Wayanad. So took down hotel contact
details and address of frill-free
**[Ginger](http://www.gingerhotels.com/)** hotel of Mysore.

Since that weekend was long weekend and Saturday was Santanu's exam I
was not sure when exactly he wanted to leave from home. Because by the
time he will reach home after exam it would be late afternoon. Then also
on Friday late evening we packed our things with 'just in case thought.'
On Saturday he called me up around noon saying to call those home-stays
if there is any availability or not and to be ready otherwise to leave
immediately within 1 hr. after he returns home. When I called those
home-stays only one was available. Gave a call directly to her for
availability otherwise pricing will vary then. Thereafter I remembered
its not home-stays we are supposed to stay that night but frill free
hotel of Mysore. Later after his exams I called him to clarify those
doubts and that time he said no we are going straight to one which is
available at Wayanad. I was bit stupefied on hearing that - Was really
not sure whether he would be able to drive that evening or not but he
sounded quite confirmed in his answer. Oh man! he is so adamant not to
make any proper itinerary before any trip.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-04-12-visit-to-north-kerala-wayanad-mysore_palace_night.jpg)](../images/2009-04-12-visit-to-north-kerala-wayanad-mysore_palace_night.jpg)

Finally, route was **Bangalore - Mysore - Nanjangud - Gundalpet - Sultan
Bathery – Wayanad**. We set off on Saturday at 4.10 PM from home and
touched Mysore by 7.15PM since it was already dark we missed the signal
of Ooty and ended up going to Mysore palace. Luckily, from far we saw
whole palace being lighted up. So we made a halt to take photographs.
Some open air music function was going on at eve of Ugadi. Around 7.50PM
we happened to ask one police-officer the route to Ooty and he was
startled seeing me and Aarush saying its too late to go there. Will take
around 9-10 hrs to reach and road is not that excellent. And suggested
to stay at some hotel at Mysore only. Then we said we actually want to
go to Wayanad. Hearing that he seemed to be quite relieved and said road
is very good and gave direction to the same. By 8.05 we were in car and
in no time were at route leading to Nanjangud. Our excitement was in the
air.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-04-12-visit-to-north-kerala-wayanad-mysore_palace_night2.jpg)](../images/2009-04-12-visit-to-north-kerala-wayanad-mysore_palace_night2.jpg)

The route to Wayanad had to be traversed through the hilly terrain
highway. We could not speed up much although Aarush was sleeping but
dazzling lights from opposite direction vehicles were very disturbing.
We made few more stop - overs to confirm the route and then take-away
dinner on route. Crossed dense jungle of Bandipur at night. We had to be
very vigilant through out. As this was our first night drive. There are
lots of check posts and in one check post Santanu had to get down to
give driving license and car registration details.

Lady of home-stay – '**[Ente vedu](http://www.enteveedu.co.in/)**' told
me once you reach Sultan Bathry give call for further directions. Route
to our home-stay was another 45 min. more from S.Bethary. We had to
leave **NH 212** and drive on a connecting road towards Mananthavady
this road was complete dark and up-down roads with lot of winding we
were not able to accelerate more. As it crosses villages there were no
car or person on the road. Still we found some night owl to confirm we
are on the right direction or not. Her guide "Nash Jose" directed us
although we were feeling quite uncomfortable for disturbing them that
late. Guidance was with location, buildings on the road sides and also
with distance from where we were calling. Later from one point we were
not able to figure out which route to take then he came himself to that
point to guide us. Really nice of him. This home-stay is located in
**Panamaram, Wayanad**.

In spite of reaching the homestay pretty late (past midnight) he showed
us room and other facilities and bid goodnight. That night we were given
one big room (kind of dormitory where many can stay together with
bathroom but toilet was outside. Thank God we did not need to share with
anybody. As all other rooms were booked we got this one and we were told
by morning we can change to room of our choice.

  
<span class="small">View [Bangalore -
Wayanad(Panaram)](http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=106559180008999009034.0004699aa94a4c6cb8471&ll=12.350734,76.734009&spn=3.755583,4.669189&z=7&source=embed)
in a larger map</span>
