+++
title = "First day @ Singapore"
slug = "2009-12-21-first-day-singapore"
published = 2009-12-21T05:18:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Orchard", "kangkung", "Singapore", "Mandarin Meritus", "ION Orchard", "Stingray",]
+++
Viewing Singapore through a lens of mother of 22 months old baby was not
fun all the time but enjoyed our stay there for 9 days. Actually this
journey is because of Santanu who went almost every year after returning
to India. Each time after his official trip he use to complain about his
loneliness and etc. So this time we made sure to accompany him. But what
a luck! he was damn busy in his office. He use to leave hotel early in
the morning and come late at night. It was me and Aarush who were left
to explore Singapore of  our own.

We reached Singapore on Thursday morning, on our way to hotel we figured
that its **extremely green country** with no single patch left just like
that. Had our buffet breakfast till throat and hit the bed to overcome
jetlag. We slept till 4.00PM Singapore local time.  Straight I went to
window of my room on 30th floor and surprised to see natures tears
rolling down from mournful burdened grey  clouds and people carrying
open umbrellas. I cursed myself that I got rains along with me from
Bangalore as it was pouring the day we left from there.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-12-21-first-day-singapore-singapore-aarush1.jpg)](../images/2009-12-21-first-day-singapore-singapore-aarush1.jpg)

Lazily me and my son took shower and left the hotel around 6pm. Our
hotel **Mandarin Meritus** was on Orchard Street; I preferred to know my
neighborhood first. So, *walking on that street felt like walking on
Champs-Elysées of Paris with only difference that former is full of
malls one after another while later is full of shops from branded
company*.  All these malls have branded showrooms; labels like *Louis
Vuitton, Prada, Cartier, Dior and Giorgio Armani* you name it its all
there in one street.

It seems that Christmas preparations started earlier. Whole street was
already decorated in Christmas mood; spotted so many caricatures along
the road on pavement; a huge Christmas tree at shopping extravaganza
**ION Orchard** and lots more Christmas decorations outside and inside
other Malls. The architecture of the Ion orchard building is something
different compared to other malls in Orchard road. The facade is formed
of huge glass bubbles.

For my son, whole thing was absolutely new,  he was behaving like *a
hero of Bollywood who just  came from very remote village to a big
city*. He was too excited to see all these hustling bustling city life. 
Near Orchard metro they have colorful fountains dancing with light. He
enjoyed so much so that he completely drenched himself.

It seems People too were in festive mood carrying shopping bags in each
hand. After strolling on that busy Orchard Street we headed to hotel as
my son's clothes were wet and I didn't want to take risk with his health
at new place and massacre my holidays.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-12-21-first-day-singapore-stingray2.jpg)](../images/2009-12-21-first-day-singapore-stingray2.jpg)

On returning to room Santanu was already there busy on phone call
meeting. By the time my son had some food and slept again. It was almost
11 when Santanu had finished his phone call. Had dinner at youth park;
back of our hotel. We had **Stingray** (a common Singaporean dish) with
rice and **Stir Fried kangkung** (water Spinach). We walked around to
locate  nearest metro station and Santanu showed me about how to follow
bus-route.
