+++
title = "IPL 2.0"
slug = "2009-03-23-ipl-2-0"
published = 2009-03-23T23:46:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "My Diary", "cricket", "IPL",]
+++
IPL – Indian Premier League goes out of India. You do not need to be a
cricket fan to follow this news as it is every where. I am literally out
raged with this news can you think suddenly British (Barclay)
premiership moves to Spain as cold winter stormed as swapped across
Britain. Mr.Lalit Modi is a big favorite be it media or those franchisee
owners but certainly things will be different after this summer. I
really can not believe IPL can survive solely on TV. There is a bigger
eco-system which goes around IPL be it parking or those support members
(in hundreds) for each team. And surely there will not be any
cheerleaders any more as there will not be any spectators. How they are
going to manage in cold un-predictable month of April where you get
sudden blizzards in UK. If TV works so well I am sure American sports
might had exported to other parts of the world by now be it NBA,NFL or
NHL. It is also mostly watched by TV but there is a eco-system around
the whole and you find TV serials to movies about the same. Can you
believe Only wish be this IPL 2.o becomes so flop and the
franchisee-owners makes huge loses so that they can come down to ground
from their chartered flights. Last summer they poured huge sum thinking
they will recover someday soon but with this development I am not sure
who soon.
