+++
title = "First month"
slug = "2009-03-07-first-month"
published = 2009-03-07T14:28:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "baby", "Aarush",]
+++
Tiredness was still there after delivery and by now I realized what
people were talking about… shamelessly take advantage of this period to
rest yourself. On other hand I was desperate to take a step outside
house of my own after 9 months bed rest *to feel the breeze brushing
against my skin*. But it never happened because of *customs*.
**Ooof....** On 10th day took a complete shower from head to toe as on
same day my stitch was removed which took hardly few minutes. I got
**Low Transverse Incision** which healed well. Oh! How fresh I felt that
day after bath and removal of all those bandages from lower abdomen.

For Aarush, his umbilical cord also fall off after 10days, he lost his
weight in first 12 days. He got **oral polio drops** and one shot of
**BCG** this month but didn’t cried almost – behaved very well with me
outside house and in front of doctor.

After discharge from hospital it was tough to decide where to put our
little one. Though Baby cots, cradles and moses baskets are widely
available today, in India. But, I strongly felt breast-feeding would be
easier if he sleeps with me as I won’t have to get out of bed every time
to feed. So, weighing the pros and cons we made the decision together
that **he will sleep with us**. Till date he does sleep with us only. At
nights when he use to cry on and off mainly being hungry or wet – we
felt our decision worked out best.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-03-07-first-month-aarush_hand.jpg)](../images/2009-03-07-first-month-aarush_hand.jpg)

We truly spent hours staring at the little one cozily nested between us,
observing his facial expressions while he snooze - particularly grinning
or making crying face with his eyes closed and when he purses his lips
is truly irresistible. At times we wondered was it a reality or dream -
with Aarush we’ve created a home nest that brought incredible joys and
ofcourse *not to mention sleepless nights*. As soon as he use to woke up
he would stretch a lot. His tiny hands use to remain tightly clenched
while awake. In the form of short naps he use to sleep around 15-18 hrs.
Whenever he was startled by a loud noise would thrust out his arms and
legs and drew back them or start crying. Yet, he couldn't focus far off
objects and that too small ones.

Mostly, my mom use to take care of Aarush be it potty cleaning, massage
or giving bath. His thamma (my MIL) was anxious to try her hand seeing
his didu (my Mom) doing everything it was hard for her to resist. She
also got chance when didu was down with fever for 2-3 days. My dad and
mother-in-law left after 15 days of his birth.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-03-07-first-month-aarush_parecel.jpg)](../images/2009-03-07-first-month-aarush_parecel.jpg)

After 15 days we appointed one maid who use to give him oil massage as
well bath and thereafter wrap him tight in cotton cloth just like a
**small parcel**. Soon after he use to have his milk and fall asleep for
hours.

By then, I became **milk vending machine**. Feeding every 2 -3 hrs was
bit troublesome …it took me quite a while to adjust to the same. Often
for fun when I use to rub my finger to the corner of his mouth, he would
immediately turn towards it for sucking – my mom use to scold me a lot
for this action of mine.

On 21st Day we all went first to Kalibari at Vashi to offer puja *(from
this day onwards me and Aarush were supposed to go anywhere)*. There
also he behaved very nicely and priest took him in his arms to give him
blessings of Goddess Kali.

For Santanu, it was hard balancing work and home life.Along with me he
was learning to become fully trained, hands-on the nappy, changing,
up-all-night which was definitely tiring. Big change over at work, Long
commute by locals - Obviously... it was *juggling act of enourmous
proportions.* At end of month Santanu had to leave for Bangalore on a
week long trip and missed first month milestone of Aarush.
