+++
title = "Road trip to Mysore"
slug = "2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore"
published = 2009-02-17T04:58:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Karnataka", "Wodeyar dynasty", "Christmas", "mysore", "car", "Kingdom of Mysore", "Royal Orchid Hotel", "Mirza Ismail",]
+++
Applied for a whole week off in December as I had **25+** days off to
take for year 2008 - this gave us 9 days off with two weekends. I
preferred a week before **Christmas to avoid traffic and tourist**.
Initial plan was to leave Bangalore on Sunday for **Mysore** and move
from there depending on Aarush's comfort. *Stepping out of the home with
him means a disrupted routine and adapting to a new environment for all
us*. Somehow, I was super lazy on Sunday and postponed the travel for
next day. Even while dining on Sunday we were discussing just to be in
Bangalore for whole next week or not. Then I concluded the discussion by
saying- *"we will start tomorrow(Monday) very early morning."*

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore-bangalore_mysore_express_way.jpg)](../images/2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore-bangalore_mysore_express_way.jpg)

Next morning we could not start early either because of apathy; we
started with normal daily practice and by the time we left home it was
**11:20** on the clock. Aarush dozed off as we crossed Bangalore city
limit and car picked some speed. He woke up when we reached almost
outskirts of Mysore. I was driving with comfort as it was 3rd time on
the same expressway in a short period of time. Followed sign for the
**Mysore palace** and reached **south gate** entrance.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore-mysore_palace.jpg)](../images/2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore-mysore_palace.jpg)

We had our packed lunch in the car before entering the palace compound.
Bargained & hired a guide to show us the nooks and corner of the palace.
**Cameras are strictly forbidden** inside the palace and we also had to
leave our shoes outside as we enter the palace. Without going into
details the palace is awesome; well maintained in Indian standard but
not up to the mark like those of **"Ch√¢teaux de Loire"**. The work and
craftsmanship inside is too good which highlights how rich Maharajas of
Mysore were. They had natural resources at their disposal like **Kolar
gold mine**, **Ivory** and varieties of **expensive woods** to fulfill
their hearts wish. The campus also has **27 temples** almost at every
corners of the compound.

It was dark when we left palace car parking and headed for a hotel.
Initial choice was **Ginger** (new no frill hotel from Tata) as I did
not stopped on the way to note the phone number we opted for **Hotel
Paradise**. We were lost in dark while finding the hotel though we were
certain we are in the same neighborhood and then a **lady Samaritan**
guided us to the same on her scooter. The room was nice and clean; it
cost us about 2000 (san air conditioning) rupees. A old fashioned
beautiful hotel with nice view to whole city. The structure is old but
elegant. We discovered the well kept and manicured Hotel garden next day
morning.

After whole days of activity Aarush went to sleep very early skipping
his normal dinner. Around **4 AM** he woke up with full energy and
started banging phone and other objects on which he could lay his hands.
After one and half hours of playing he dozed off as the east sky was
bright.

We woke up late; I called a friend at work who had been to **Coorg**week
before for details. After getting the contact called the same home-stay
letting them know - we are coming today itself. This caught the owner
off guard as he was not prepared for any visitor during the week but he
said he will go to the market and dinner will be ready for us tonight.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore-Brindavan_garden.jpg)](../images/2009-02-17-road-trip-to-mysore-Brindavan_garden.jpg)

After breakfast we picked some necessary things before hitting the road
for **Brindavan garden**; it was already 11 AM. Brindhavan garden is
only 15 KM from Mysore but the condition of the road started to
deteriorate as we reached closer to the dam. It is just horrible with
big pot holes; big trucks carrying river stones are the culprit for the
road condition.

Being Tuesday, there was hardly any tourist in the garden. This garden
is brain child of **Sir Mirza Ismail** influenced by Mughal design. The
dam was built in 1927-32 by Wodeyar rulers of Mysore on river Cauvery.
In recent time, there have been renovation work going on to beautify the
garden and its surroundings. Old guest house have converted to **Royal
Orchid Hotel**; kept wondering who goes there to stay on business or
leisure. Only thing I could think off was to have corporate off-site
meeting there.

After Brindhavan garden we headed towards Coorg via SH88.
