+++
title = "Visit to OT"
slug = "2009-05-30-visit-to-ot"
published = 2009-05-30T05:15:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "middle ear infection", "Aarush", "speech delay", "webmd",]
+++
Aarush was having cough for long time almost few months from now. Every
now and then it used to increase and then it subsided with cough syrup.
Every time we thought after a week of cough syrup treatment it will be
better but it somehow never got cured completely. In between, we tried
different "pathys" as suggested by experienced parents. Now last month
while he was getting immunization after 15th months doctor suggested to
visit ENT specialist because of prolonged cough and speech delay. We
took appointment with ENT specialist at Manipal hospital and he gave him
some antibiotics. After two more visits he felt both his ears still have
congestion and things are not improving. The same line thought was
shared by his pediatrics too so suggested for a microscopic operation.

It seems middle ear infection is quite common for children below 3
years. Read the [same on
WebMD](http://www.webmd.com/cold-and-flu/ear-infection/tubes-for-ear-infections#ut1090 "Middle ear infections")
if you are curious. There is a nice
[slideshow](http://www.webmd.com/hw-popup/tubes-for-ear-infections) to
explain.

Filled all the pre-approval hospitalization forms and again another set
for Insurance company. And ensured bed/room booking is all set before
the big day. Night before Aarush got admitted and we three spent the
night at hospital. Aarush was in very playful mood. Might be Aarush was
thinking he has came to a hotel for a travel or so. Few doctors and
nurses made visit and advised Aarush should be not given any food or
drink after midnight. He was scheduled to be operated in the morning
itself. Around 10.30 PM nurse came to take his blood sample of about 3ml
which was horrifying experience for all.

![](../images/2009-05-30-visit-to-ot-aarush_hospital_1.jpg)

In the morning, he got his hospital dress and wrist band before moving
to OT. He was in very cheerful mood as he couldnot make out what
actually will happen next. While we were waiting just outside the OT we
saw 2 others little boys being treated on emergency. Pamela recognized
[KOUSIK](http://kousik.blogspot.com/ "Kousik") - they were there with
their son Iravan. We only know them virtually as we follow their blog
from time to time. We were not in a mood to say 'hello' for a quick
introduction. Wishing a quick recovery to Iravan.

Aarush operation finished within 45 mins. He was very cranky and cried a
lot after returning from OT. **IV** fluid channel was setup in his right
hand and he wanted to remove the same. After 30 mins or so we moved back
to our special room. It is now almost 11 AM and still our litte one is
without any food or drink  for last 12 hours. After incessant crying he
slept and woke up bit fresh around 12 noon. We gave him some **Mosumbi**
juice to start with. Around 1 afternoon he had his lunch and being
famished he finished his portion of hospital meal without any fuss. The
amount of food supplied was enough for us and we also finished our
lunch.

Around 2 PM went to see his pediatrics and all seemed normal. But we
were still worried about cough and he said it will get better now and to
revisit him in a week.

![](../images/2009-05-30-visit-to-ot-aarush_hospital_2.jpg)

Back to room we are still waiting for the ENT specialist to visit so
that we can get a release note from hospital. The doctor was too busy
and came around 4 PM and we were given green signal for release. Oh !
what a relief... that really is a big burden spending another night in
hospital for no good reason.

After  good nap Aarush was playful, looks like he adjusted with that big
needle on his right hand quite well.  As we are getting medical
insurance to cover this operation we  could not be released before
completing 24 hours which means we are hostage till 9PM.

Dinner for Aarush came around 7PM and this time he did all his routine
work for food which means it took an hour with lots of pleading, running
behind and cleaning the floor etc. At 9 PM paid my part of the payment 
and got the release order by 9:30 PM we were out of hospital.

P.S. Aarush is doing well(finger crossed). Hope he recovers speedily.
