+++
title = "Jodhpur-II"
slug = "2011-03-09-jodhpur-ii"
published = 2011-03-09T22:52:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Rajasthan", "palace of Umaid Bhawan", "jain temples", "Queen Mandodri", "Sachiya Mata TempleSachiya Mata Temple",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-03-09-jodhpur-ii-jodhpur-2.jpg)](../images/2011-03-09-jodhpur-ii-jodhpur-2.jpg)

We started early morning after breakfast around 8 .00am. But luck is
always not in favour we got one nasty cab driver unlike Jaipur. Although
hired cab through hotel and asked to take us to Osyian but he insisted
on going to majestic sandstone palace of **Umaid Bhawan**. Before going
there he took us to shops for early morning shopping but we
didn’t.(*they get commission when they take clients to their choice of
place)*. Anyways, on reaching there we found that it was not yet open so
we had to wait till it get opened. One part of this palace is converted
to *5-star hotel*, in second part *king stays* and third part is
*museum* which is open to public.

From here we asked him to take us to **Osyian** famous for cluster of
ruined **brahmanical and jain** temples dating from the 8th to 11th
centuries. He took us to *Sachiya mata temple* but insisted to take one
guide of his choice which we didn’t like but we had to. They are
beautifully designed in terms of architecture. For entering the Sachiya
Mata temple complex, there are series of magnificently sculpted
arches.Outside walls of temple are beautifully sculpted with different
dieties. Along with these there are many small temples around like *jain
temple, surya temple, vishnu temple, shiv mandir, pippala devi temple
and harihara temple.* The temples are raised on huge plinths. Almost
every space in the temples is sculpted to a great extent. The temple
ceilings were conceived by quite an imaginative mind and are decorated
with lace like motifs.

Osyian holds a great significance for the Jain community.From top to
bottom of temple they highly and beautifully carved-worth visiting this
place. It takes almost 2 hrs to cover these area.

It was almost noon when we left for **mandore garden** which is said to
be maiden place of Queen Mandodri, wife of King RAVAN of Shri Lanka.It
is highly neglected site but fine piece of architecture. It houses
cenotaphs and memorials of many rulers which is worth seeing. The garden
also has a baoli and a hall of heroes that consists of 15 carved
figures. These figures carved out of single  red sandstone.As it was too
hot we had icecream here.

Then went towards **Meherangarh fort** but again our cabdriver insisted
us to do shopping of his choice and took us to 2-3 places then lastly
seeing our irritated face he went straight to fort. It is one of the
largest fort with massive ramparts built around the edges. We hired a
guide here  who took us around showing intricate carvings of *moti
mahal, sheesh mahal, phool mahal, zenana deodi, chamunda mataji temple,
museum* having exquisite collection of palanquins, elephant howdahs,
armoury, paintings,music instrument,turbans etc. Entry to fort is
through many gates like: *jai pol, fateh pol, dedh kamgra pol, loha
pol*. Top of fort gives a breath taking view of  **blue city** of
brahmapur. Basically, those who are ***brahmins*** they paint outside
wall of their house in blue color. One can see winding roads to and from
city. We had late lunch within fort campus as we did not wanted to take
our cab-driver to place of his choice. It was almost 5.00pm

Then we asked him to take to **Jaswant thada** to which he said it is
closed as already 5.00  but we also now insisted on going there.Truly,
about to close but seeing us coming running they allowed us to which we
are highly obliged. It is again architectural landmark made of white
marble. These marbles are extremely thin, polished and intricately
carved so that they emit a warm glow when the sun's rays dance across
their surface.

From here we straight came to hotel as we had already checked out in
morning; we wanted to take shower to freshen ourself so on request they
gave us one room for 1hr.We had dinner innearby mall at Mc.Donald.Today
we had late night train to Jaisalmer.
