+++
title = "Jaipur"
slug = "2011-02-01-jaipur"
published = 2011-02-01T02:11:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Jaigarh Fort", "Chandra Mahal", "Rajasthan", "Jantar Mantar", "Amber Fort", "Jaipur", "Birla Temple of Jaipur", "Nahargarh Fort", "Moti Dungri Fort", "Man Sagar Lake",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-02-01-jaipur-jaipur.jpg)](../images/2011-02-01-jaipur-jaipur.jpg)

We woke around 7ish and left by the same Cab with Mr. Singh (who took us
to Shekhawati) around 8:30 from hotel. As Mr. Singh said jokingly lets
start the day in auspicious way – which mean **Birla Temple** was first
on the list and we reached the parking lot at dot 9. The journey took us
trough the posh residential area of Jaipur with huge bungalows which
have similarities with the Lutyens’ Delhi but a rarity in modern India.

Birla Temple of Jaipur like any other Birla Temple is made with pure
white marble. There is **Moti Dungri Fort** in the back ground. Next to
the Birla Temple is most famous Ganesh Temple which we skipped. After
the quick tour of Birla Temple Mr. Singh took us for Breakfast. The
choice was very simple *Jalebi and Samosa* as coming from Bangalore we
were craving for it. The street we stopped  was full of traditional
sweet makers. The Samosa was just made in front of us and it was so
fricking hot that we both burnt our tongue but both were too good.

**Hawa Mahal** was our next stop  - the iconic building of Jaipur. We
entered from the side and bought a combo ticket that allows entering 5
Government maintained attractions. At ticket counter, we were told Audio
Guide wasn’t available but which was not right as we saw the counter
once inside. We hired a guide for 150(posted price was 200 we were  his
first client).The guide was a gentle person who knew the history and the
Kodak-spots very well.

From the back Hawa Mahal does not look that appealing, it has two big
courtyards.  The building was made for the royal ladies so that they can
view the world without being seen. There are around thousands (937) of
windows which over looks the Delhi-Jaipur highway. In those days, all
the big parades or activites used to happen on this road. And that
allowed ladies to watch royal processions and festivities. In this five
storey building , top floor was for the maids and small children. The
outer wall is not 90° rather inclined at 70° to give much better
visibility from the top. The small windows on the façade gives it a
honey comb look. From the top we could see city palace, Jantar Mantar
clearly and the whole Aravalli (one of the oldest mountain range in the
word) range which gives a natural protection to the city of Jaipur.

From here went to **Jantar Mantar**; this time we were not that lucky as
there were no concession in terms of hiring a guide. The Founder king of
Jaipur was great in astronomy, he built five such Jantar Instruments &
Mantar(calculation) in India. Jaipur has the largest and best preserved
of all. The largest sundial of the word has an accuracy of 2 seconds.
The other instruments are more complex and innovative. There always a
small replica made before the big ones are constructed to ensure the
accuracy is maintained. The Jantar Matar is quite well maintained but as
usual there were few Indian who don’t follow rules and step into the
constructions for their photos.

The Sun was getting hotter in each passing minutes and so the
naughtiness of Aarush. Not sure it was due to Sun or just like that. But
after running around in Jantar Mantar we crossed road and entered **City
Palace**. The city palace is divided into two parts one for the public
and other where the current ruler still stays. The administration is
private here. The ticket is quite expensive but the monument is very
well maintained. Chandra Mahal is part of the private part of current
Royal family a seven storey building which host the royal flag of
Jaipur. Almost after 90 minutes we made our exit from City palace and by
that time the heat was too much. We got some curd and fruits for Aarush
on way towards Amber ford.

On the way we did stopped for few minutes at **Maharani ki Chhatri** and
**Jal Mahal**. Jal Mahal is  on man made Man Sagar Lake.

**Amber Fort** was the royal fort and Amber was capital before Man Singh
moved his capital and Royal Palace to the modern Jaipur. It has plenty
of history and details for which a guide is must. Amber fort is build
over centuries and the cost of the building is unknown but some say it
might cost 3 to 4 times the cost of Taj Mahal.  The palace has the
famous Sheesh Mahal (palace of mirrors) which lights up with a single
candle.  There are many passage which carries water and air to ensure
there is enough cooling for the hot summer month. The concept  of
sustainable architecture is at it best.  I must admit the architects
ensured every drops of monsoon rain is saved and properly used so they
can survive a harsh drought if needed.

It took us more than an hour to walk around different parts of the
palace.We had a simple vegetarian lunch (very late one) before moving to
Jaigarh Fort. You can walk between Amber and Jaigarh fort if your legs
and lungs permit; with car one needs to take a long detour. Aarush fall
asleep as car started to roll. We paid extra so we can take our cab
inside which was a great idea with sleeping Aaursh. Jaigarh Fort is
situated on a higher hill and that gives it a complete view of Amber
fort. Jaigarh fort was a army station  so in case of an emergency it can
save Royal Family located at Amber fort. It was closing time when we
came out of Jaigarh fort.

Last on the list was **Nahargarh Fort**, it is on the edge of the hills
and overlooks Jaipur city. We were lucky enough to catch Sunset but  sky
was not very clear.  By the time we finished Nahargarh Fort and headed
back to Jaipur city it was dark.

We stopped at one shop for some shopping before returning to hotel where
we had a simple dinner after getting freshened up. That midnight,we had
our train to Jodhpur. It was a very long day indeed.
