+++
title = "Ajmer-Pushkar"
slug = "2011-03-14-ajmer-pushkar"
published = 2011-03-14T23:10:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Rajasthan", "Ochlophobia", "Pushkar lake", "Anasagar Lake", "Kishangarh fort", "festival of lights", "Ajmer",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-03-14-ajmer-pushkar-ajmer-pushkar.jpg)](../images/2011-03-14-ajmer-pushkar-ajmer-pushkar.jpg)

Early morning reached **Jaipur** from Jaisalmer by train. This time our
cab driver from hotel (Madhuban) was waiting and on reaching hotel
relaxed  for while.   Before leaving for Jodhpur, we have fixed
with **Mr. Singh** (our reliable cab driver) for this trip to
**Ajmer-Pushkar**. As usual, he was there on time; left hotel room
around 8.00am. Had our breakfast on way at small neat and clean dhaba.
Road being 6 lane; had very comfort drive and was hardly crowded.

We went first to **Kishangarh fort**, with **Phool Mahal Palace,** **a
heritage hotel** along side and Gundalao Lake on the front. This
heritage hotel was previously the residence of the Maharajas of
Kishangarh. Major part of lake bed is now converted into verdant fields.
Area is quite famous for miniature paintings. But being holiday we could
not visit any art gallery. Took few snaps and headed towards our next
destination.

**Soniji Ki Nasiyan** at **Ajmer** is a Digambar<span
style="text-decoration: underline;"> </span>Jain temple. The main
chamber, known as the Swarna Nagari (*City of Gold*), has several
gold-plated wooden figures, depicting characters in the Jain tradition.
The main prayer hall is a separate complex.

From there went to **Dargah Sharif** of *Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti*. Being
a Diwali day and Friday it was overly crowded. We had to leave camera
and shoes outside with a  flower stall and head covering was mandatory.
After paying our obeisance we asked for the way to **Adhai Din Ka
Jhopda**, a Vaishnav Hindu temple constructed in 1153 and later
converted into a mosque by Qutubudin Aybak in  1193. We went there by
walk through a small lanes which are full of small eateries and sweet
shops. If you are hygiene freak you might want to skip this part of
Ajmer.

Mr. Singh took us to **Anasagar Lake,** man-made lake to relax and to
take a break. It was really refreshing and helped us in gaining our
breath break after all those pushing and Ochlophobia in-around Dargah.

Ajmer and Pushkar are two side of common mountain range and distance
between them is only 15 KM. We first went to **Brahma** **(***the
creator of the universe*) **temple** at **Pushkar**. The best irony of
Hindu mythology is Lord brahma is only worshiped in Pushkar in the whole
universe as he was cursed by his 1<sup>st</sup> wife. Two temples of his
two wives are at the top of two separate mountain tops and in between is
his temple next to Pushkar lake.Unlike dargah, there was hardly any
crowd here.

Finally, went  to **Pushkar lake** where all the house next to lake are
painted in blue  to symbolize the Brahmin owner.  Just opposite to lake
there is one resto where we had scrumptious Pasta (which was awesome) as
lunch. On way back went to see **Chota Pushkar** nearby and by early
evening we were at Jaipur city to celebrate **Diwali**.  Took a walk on
residential area nearby our hotel  and had dinner thereafter.This was
Aarush's first hand experience of Diwali in North India where sounds
from crackers are louder compared to South.
