+++
title = "Shravanabelagola - 18th October 2009"
slug = "2011-03-06-shravanabelagola-18th-october-2009"
published = 2011-03-06T14:58:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "jain pilgrimage", "shravanabelagola", "Karnataka", "Chandragupta", "Vindhyagiri",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2011-03-06-shravanabelagola-18th-october-2009-shravanabelagola.jpg)](../images/2011-03-06-shravanabelagola-18th-october-2009-shravanabelagola.jpg)

Me and Aarush just returned a day before Santanu’s birthday from Durg
and he wanted an excuse from strenuous week at IIM-B and we ended up
planning to visit **Shravanabelagola** right after Diwali day. Unlike
his earlier trip he just had a casual look at the route map to
Shravanabelagola, it is a religious spot, a **Jain pilgrimage** centre.
The place is famous for 58ft. high monolithic stone statue of the Lord
Gommateshwara.

**Yeshvantapur -&gt; Neelamangala -&gt; Kunigal -&gt; Shravanabelagola**

Morning 6.30AM we started; roads were full of potholes from Yeshvantapur
with flyover construction still going on till Neelamangala where we lost
route after taking 2 U- turns ended up asking locals then got into right
road(NH-48) but that was again full of pot holes.We had breakfast at
**Hotel Mayura** on the way, it was almost 11; Aaursh enjoyed their play
area.

Then we headed straight towards our destination and reached
Shravanabelagola without much problem as roads were marked properly. The
two stony hills called **Chandragiri** and **Indragiri** on either side
with lake in between makes famous Jain pilgrimage center. Just within
gate you will find a paid toilet and shoe stand where you have to leave
your shoes and climb up this hill by foot. Flight of about **660 steps**
to the top, cutout in the rock, people of all ages climb these steps.
For elderly or handicapped people there is a *palanquin* transport
service available to avoid the strenuous hike. These rough rock cut
steps are steep at places; we had socks on our feet as the rock gets
hotter as with days. We began the climb and stopped in-between to get
our breath back and took some pictures. It took  around 30 - 40 minutes
to reach the top. On the way up, we found breathtaking views of the
Chandragiri temple and the lake in-between.The huge statue of Bahubali
and the view around is stunning. It is carved beautifully from a single
block of rock with accurate sense of proportion and expression. All the
**42 Tirthankaras** carved figures are there in the corridor around the
quadrangle. The Downhill was more enjoyable, as you had to court gravity
and slope.It is equally steep so better *be careful !!!*

  

Took about 30 mins to reach the base of Vindhyagiri.There are numerous
homely **Marwari / Jain food** available in the nearby lane on left side
while you enter from the gate I strongly suggest you plan your lunch
either here in one of these since its a different experience **OR** best
is to have free lunch at **Official  bhojanalay**. Small by-lane next to
gate on inner side along the office goes straight to Dharamshala with a
big gate where after giving donation you can have lunch which is served
to you in rows umpteen times.

  

After having lunch here, we went to the place where Chandragupta
breathed his last named **Chandragiri** (Chikkabetta) hill. It is a
small hill is located just opposite to the Vindhyagiri hill. It has
memorials to numerous monks and shravakas who have meditated there.
Steps have been cut out in this hill and the ascent is not different
from Vindhyagiri. After spending there till 4.00pm we started our
journey back home via **Mandya**. Aarush went to sleep as soon as car
started to roll. The road via Mandya was better as there was not much
traffic and not those potholes even. Aarush woke up next day around 9AM
a **record** which we still recollect.

**TIP**: *Carry pair of socks to avoid buying there so that if needed
one can use it as with sun's brightness rocks tend to become hot making
it almost impossible to climb bare feet.*
