+++
title = "Masinagudi"
slug = "2012-09-14-masinagudi"
published = 2012-09-14T00:43:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Mudumalai National Park", "Tamilnadu", "Bandipur Forest", "Tiger reserves of India", "Jungle Lodge", "Ooty(Red Hills", "Tamil Nadu", "jungle hut",]
+++
The long waited Summer Vacation of 2012 ; earlier we used to escape the
peak season madness now we are in the madness since both Aarush and
Pamela are now part of active school. And we are going to be like this
for years to come with no other choice. With that said, still wanted to
avoid the crowded destinations. We wanted to visit ‘ Nilgiris’ the
number uno summer destination of South India and picked Mudumalai,
Ooty(Red Hills) and Connoor. We booked Red Hills Nature resort first,
Wild Acres in Connoor second and at last Jungle Lodge at Masinagudi. All
these booking were done with at least month in advance keeping in mind
pick season.

  

We started from Bangalore on Sunday 15th April. The plan was to start
very early morning but the alarm in BlackBerry was only for weekdays and
it did not buzzed as it was Sunday (alarm only on weekday). We started
from our home around 6:30 AM the traffic in Bangalore-Mysore was as
usual crazy. Reached Mysore around 9 AM and stopped at Kamat near
Mysore-Zoo for breakfast. From there the road to Masinagudi is 100KM and
we had to travel on typical Indian 2 Lane Highway (undivided). The drive
was nice only in the last part of Karnataka side there were many
unmarked speed breaker in Bandipur Forest range. On the way we spotted
many spotted deers. We reached Masinagudi in high noon with scorching
heat and filled up the tank with diesel there. The road to JungleHut is
well marked and we reached around 12 there.

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-09-14-masinagudi-masinagudi.jpg)](../images/2012-09-14-masinagudi-masinagudi.jpg)

Host welcomed us with warm greetings and invited Aarush for b’day party
later in the evening. Aarush was very keen to jump in the swimming pool
right then & there and we pursued him for later. The lunch was great
with many choice and felt like a great start for vacation. We retired to
our hut and took a small nap. Around 16:30 we went for a open jeep road
side safari. We saw many spotted dears on our way to mayor dam. On our
way back we spotted wild Boar, peacocks; the driver/guide was great and
he took us to a detour and we spotted Mongoose and Sambar Deer. Sambar
Deer was very shy and camouflaged and being dark could not take any
picture.

  

Coming back to JungleHut we found the B’day part just finished but there
were cakes and etc. We celebrated the same and got freshened up. The
dinner was excellent with a touch of continental food. Aarush was very
happy as there were many others around his age group and had a good time
before retiring to bed. It was decided next morning Pamela will go for
walk into the nearby jungle in the early morning . This track sound very
promising as the Sunday Morning people were able to spot a leopard.

  

Pamela and another lady left for tracking early next morning and they
spotted one sloth bear just outside the resort. Rest of the track they
spotted plenty of birds no more luck with big cat. Me & Aarush dipped
into the pool and had great fun; being Monday most of the guest left for
home and the resort became little deserted. Within the resort we spotted
woodpecker and other birds. In the afternoon post lunch we went back to
Bandipur (Karnataka Side) for safari. And were extremely lucky to see
one sleeping tiger. Apart from these we spotted many dears, peacocks (in
umpteen no.) wild boar, elephants as well.

  

Tuesday morning it was my turn for morning jungle safari. I was alone
with the guide we spotted sambar deer and others. While trekking we
could hear noise of wild animal roaring from very nearby (it seems
animal spotted us) but I couldn’t see any. Well, after breakfast we
headed out for Ooty.

  
  

-   [More
    Pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/sets/72157638571572244/)
-   [Jungle Hut](http://www.junglehut.in/mainpage.html "Jungle Hut")
    where we stayed
