+++
title = "Rameshwaram"
slug = "2012-02-24-rameshwaram"
published = 2012-02-24T16:32:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Tamilnadu", "Palk Strait",]
+++
After complete rest and rainy night we woke up to find a perfect morning
in Madurai. Breakfast at the hotel was quite elaborate and we did a good
one before starting for **Rameshwaram**. The hotel guys were kind enough
to give us elaborate maps which really helped us to exit Madurai without
asking for any direction. One thing we noticed in Tamil-Nadu the
direction boards are mostly in Tamil and less of English compared to
Karnataka. The distance between Madurai and Rameshwaram is around 170
KM. The road is mostly undivided 2 lane Indian highway. There are few
patch of the road which has pot holes otherwise the road is in good
condition. The general scenery was very green and the key factor
**Vaigai** river flows along the highway NH49.While going we did not
stopped and directly reached Ramanathaswamy Temple. We crossed the
unique Pamban Bridge and left photo shot for our return. We had to pay
around 30 INR as entry fee for Rameshraam.

[![](../images/thumbnails/2012-02-24-rameshwaram-rameshwaram.jpg)](../images/2012-02-24-rameshwaram-rameshwaram.jpg)

As soon as we entered the temple we were approached by a guide who was
fluent with Hindi and agreed for a mutual price. He guided through many
kunds ( holy water – hole) where we had to wash our head. There is a
catch 22 situation you might get drenched in the water but when you
enter the temple to pray you must be in dry cloth. We literally dashed
through the huge complex and this guide used all kind of tricks like
pushing, back door entry to ensure we get the a good glimpse of the
dieties with minimal wait. It was good to have him otherwise it would
have taken us long time to go around. The walkway is always moist while
hallways are dark so be careful with your steps. I was bitten by some
insect badly on one of my foot.

After temple visit we went to **Dhanushkodi** to see the beach;  drive
was worth. From there you can see Sri-Lanka’s shore line. The beach was
not very clean and more over it was hot noon so returned back
quickly.One of the attraction of Rameshwaram is **Abdul Kalam’s** house.
But it was very sad to say the approach road was full of knee-deep water
and it felt like driving over sewage water to reach the great man’s
birth place. Definitely Rameshraam city council needs to spend some
money to make this ex-house of the great Indian a true attraction.At
3.30 pm after lunch when we started back towards Madurai.  We stopped at
Pamban Bridge for some photo shoot. This is the first sea bridge in
India connecting Rameshwaram and mainland India built by British in
1914.  Mid way we encountered a big torrential Northeast Monsoon. It was
almost 6:30 in the evening when we reached the outskirts of Madurai. We
had two options either to stay back in Madurai for the night or drive
down to Kanayakumari.

After calling friends and gaining confidence on the road condition we
opted for the second one. The NH-7 between Madurai and Kanayakumari was
very new which meant even though it is a 4 lane divided highway the toll
collection has not started yet. That had one major draw back as you need
to be extra vigilant as road marks were also not proper.

We stopped for refueling (near Tiruneveli exit) and stretched our legs.
At the end the main highway goes towards Kerala and we needed to take an
turn which we missed and had to make an U-turn after missing it for the
first time. It was 11 in the night when we reached Kanyakumari . We
settled for hotel **Samudra**, the room was very basic but we were OK
and did not had any energy left to find a better place. The best part of
this hotel is it was just adjacent to sea where you can hear the sound
of waves.

> Indeed it was a long driving day with almost 600 KM from the morning.

External Links

-   [Pamban
    Bridge ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pamban_Bridge "Pamban_Bridge")
-   [Hotel
    Samudra](http://www.tripadvisor.in/Hotel_Review-g608476-d1775832-Reviews-Hotel_Samudra-Kanyakumari_Tamil_Nadu.html "Hotel Samudra")
