+++
title = "1st class sleeper"
slug = "2013-07-15-1st-class-sleeper"
published = 2013-07-15T21:04:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Rail transport in India", "Duronto Express", "AC Cars", "Indian Railways", "Travel", "Kolkata",]
+++
It was a dream from a long time to travel in 1<sup>st</sup> class in
Indian Railway. The last time I traveled in 1<sup>st</sup> class was
early 1985 when we went to [Puri ( a must stop for Bengali
)](http://blog.santm.com/image_article/puri-family.jpg "/puri-family").
So when the dates for summer vacation became clear started booking for
train tickets. It was month of December when we booked ticked for April.
Wanted to book 2<sup>nd</sup> AC ticket but to my surprise it was
already sold out so opted for AC 1<sup>st</sup> Class. The price of AC
1<sup>st</sup> class is almost like air-fare on a positive side you get
a personal cabin/coupe and great food and service but it still takes
looong time to travel between Bangalore and Calcutta. It takes 2.5 hours
in flight and 28 hours in the fastest train which is called as Duronto
(quick). We wished to get a coupe for ourselves as when you book a AC
1<sup>st</sup> Class ticket you donâ€™t get a seat number like other class
just till 4 hours of train departure that is when Railway prepares the
boarding chart. Doing few search on internet one gentleman suggested the
best way to get a coupe to yourselves is go to the boarding railway
station and get a special ticket for your pet for a minimal price. Now
that way Railway will not mix you with others and on the day of journey
you can always say you left behind your pet with a friend.

  
  

The Journey:
------------

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-07-15-1st-class-sleeper-duronto-AC-1.jpg)](../images/2013-07-15-1st-class-sleeper-duronto-AC-1.jpg)

  

  

The day of journey started with two unpleasant news. The first one maid
called up to inform that she is not coming. Oh! that was hard, Pamela
had to clean the house, utensils to her best as she was leaving for
almost 4 weeks. And the second was rash on Aarush back. Hmm not a great
start as we were not sure what the hell is this. The pre-booked taxi
came well before hand and to our surprise we reached Yashwantpur in
jiffy. We had to wait for an hour before boarding the train which was
unpleasant with heat but a good warm-up session for the hottest summer
ahead as we leave Bangalore.

  

The train started on time and we were greeted with red roses and wet
tissue from the greeting staff. Soon they gave water bottles and told us
they will be serving soup soon and checked if we need anything before
that. The food was great and it was served with proper cutlery and there
was foldable tables. They even came back to check if we need any extra
item while having lunch. We had Indian Lunch and continental dinner and
in between he had snacks, tea-coffee and soups.

  

The journey was really relaxing the way I wanted till we reached Cuttack
(Orissa) next day, where our train and other trains including Rajdhani
were stuck for 2 hours as there was protest from local people demanding
one over-bridge. This two hours delay just killed all the fun, as soon
passenger started to agitate and there was a big drama when people were
complaining we in 1<sup>st</sup> AC still enjoying AC while they are not
J. But the reality was we did not but as AC-1st class are cabins and
have less people it was getting hot slowly. But again that reminded us
of Calcutta which is synonymous with agitation all the time. Over the
years people of Bengal have really do not know how to take ownership and
lead to solve problem of their own they are always blaming someone. Any
way after all that we started for Calcutta and soon it was lunch time.

  

Well we reached a rain soaked Calcutta post dark, it was relief from
heat but took a long time to reach our pre-booked hotel at central
Calcutta. A journey we will cherish long time as not sure next when I am
going to have the luxury of time.
