+++
title = "West Sikkim - Hee Bermiok"
slug = "2013-09-19-west-sikkim-hee-bermiok"
published = 2013-09-19T15:36:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Cheese Factory", "Changey falls", "Kangchenjunga", "Dentam", "Dantum Bridge", "Sikkim", "Sinshore bridge", "Coronation Bridge", "Melli", "siliguri",]
+++
We initially planned to visit Bhutan during summer vacation of ’13.
Somehow during the planning phase we found it was overshooting our
budget. And moreover, was advised against it during late April & Early
May as there is a high chances of rain during that time. So we had no
plan and no places to visit while we are going to be in Siliguri for
10/12 days.

  

We called one travel agent in Calcutta from train and told him about our
requirement and he said he would be able to put an itinerary of 6 nights
( 2nights Sikkim, 2 Kursuang and 2 in Darjeeling). We had no clue on the
suggested itinerary as we were too preoccupied with our trip to Gaya.

  
  

Day-1
=====

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-09-19-west-sikkim-hee-bermiok-sikkim-2013-1.jpg)](../images/2013-09-19-west-sikkim-hee-bermiok-sikkim-2013-1.jpg)

  
  

The d-day before of our trip cab driver called and informed us he is
coming down to pick us. He suggested it would be a good idea to start
from Siliguri as early as possible. We started around 7 from home to
Bermiok (West Sikkim) via Sevoke road. The road along Assam riffles was
just magnificent straight road without any potholes(a miracle in India)
and trees lined on the both side. Soon we were climbing the twisted
roads and crossed **Coronation Bridge** over the **Teesta river** ( few
days later the bridge become news when “*An Indian Guinness World Record
holder who attempted to cross a river suspended from a zip wire attached
to his ponytail has died during the stunt*”. We continued on the
Siliguri-Gantogk(**NH31A**) road and took a turn at Melli for Jorethang
and continued on Melli-NayaBazar Road. After Jorthang the road became
more steeper and narrow you really need to know how to manage those
hills and steep incline and hairpin bends with zero visibility. Only
relief was there were not many cars on the road. We reached **Bermiok**
after passing by **Nayabazar**, **Rinchenpong**, **Kaluk**. The road was
more or less well maintained but many places would be quick target of
rains and land-slide is common which would cause major havoc for
commuters.

  

The Hotel( ***Kanchan Hotel***) was pre-booked and we were the only one
to stay there. Surprisingly, the last visitor to this place was two
months back. The rooms were nothing great but as they are on the hill
you could see Kanchenjunga Range from your room. Suddenly, we realized
we are feeling cold as this place is 5650 ft above MSL. But the
caretaker gave us the first surprise mentioning we need to spend 2500 on
Taxi for sight seeing. It was a shock but we did not have a choice. In
the meantime, the sky was getting cloudy which is very common post noon
in hills. We had a simple Bengali lunch Dal, some veggies and fish.

  

Post lunch we started with Tagore Smriti , a nice park dedicated to
Rabindranath Tagore. Personally, doubt did Tagore ever visited this part
of Sikkim as there is no solid proof for the same but the local tour
guides thinks he did. From there we went to Rinchenpong monastery. There
were small monks inside the monastery for their afternoon classes so we
did not went in. This is a very old monastery built in 1717 with wood.
The driver/guide told us there is another monastery ( **Resum
Monastery**) if we are willing to walk up-hill. We wanted to explore so
continued it was long walk up-hill with many steps. My mother stopped
climbing in the middle and we three continued. It was a price-less walk
reminding Master-card Advertisement as it was complete silence and the
soundings are too green and pristine. Once we reached the top there was
not much to see honestly. There is a old monastery which seems now part
of dispute between different sect or family and there are few families
staying as caretaker. Photograph of the monastery was not allowed so we
took some pictures outside and headed back.

  

Now we headed towards to the British “**Dak-Bunglow**”( Now Government
Guest House) , we crossed **Poison lake** on the way. The story of
poison lake goes like this “when the British attacked Sikim(1860). They
reached up to Rinchenpong when Lepchas (the original inhabitants of
Sikkim) poisoned the water of the pond, the only source of water in
Rinchenpong. In the process killing almost half of the British troops
and forcing them to retreat.”

  

Well it became dark by 4:30 PM and we headed back to hotel and enjoyed
hot tea with pakodas. Sitting at the rooftop restaurant we enjoyed clear
sky and innumerable number of stars glittering on the sky, the lights of
Pelling and Gayzing was illuminating like diamonds. Cold was getting
unbearable so after an early dinner we retreated to the room quickly.

  
  

Day-2
=====

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-09-19-west-sikkim-hee-bermiok-sikkim-2013-2.jpg)](../images/2013-09-19-west-sikkim-hee-bermiok-sikkim-2013-2.jpg)

  

Wow! what a sun-rise with rain washed blue sky we got a clear view of
**Kanchenjunga Range**. It was simply magnificent. We clicked many shots
and special thanks to Pamela for being up so early. Post breakfast we
left for other local destinations. We started with **Chayataal** a
picnic spot. This a Government resort on a remote hill top. The road is
really bad there was no tar and with previous night rain it was really
muddy. We found it bit strange and could not understand why government
of Sikkim is allowing guest house/hotel/Govt- Bunglow like mushrooms. If
it continues for another couple of years this remote part will become
like Uttarakhand tsunami one day.The USP for this western Sikkim is
remoteness, being closer to nature with plenty of trees if that is gone
it will be a real shame.

  

From Chayataal as headed down we stopped at **Rock Garden**; another
park/picnic spot. It is located next to a stream and it was walking up
and down taking pictures. The place is really nice to enjoy yourself
with nature and not being bothered as there was no other tourist around.

  

Now we traversed the hills towards **Pelling**(Major town of West
Sikkim) and crossed the beautiful valley of **Dentam**, stopped at
**Cheese Factory** and bought some cheese for ourselves,. We took the
road going towards **Uttarey** and visited the famous suspension bridge
‘**Sinshore bridge**.’ From Sinshore Bridge we took an U-turn came down
to Dentum and drove towards **Changey falls**. Now we are on the
complete opposite hill range and could see the road that we came in the
morning. The Changey falls was OK but as we were end of summer there was
not much water but good enough.

  

On the way back to Dantum we asked the driver to stop **Kalej Khola**,
this is near Dantum Bridge. We went to the stream to soak our feet the
water was cold but it was really relaxing. We were hungry and headed
back to our hotel for lunch. Post lunch we went for a stroll on the same
road for couple of kilometers.
