+++
title = "Chennai DRHM"
slug = "2013-07-12-chennai-drhm"
published = 2013-07-12T18:45:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "My Diary", "Bay of Bengal", "Marina Bay", "Chennai DRHM", "Chennai", "Half Marathon", "Garmin", "running",]
+++
Chennai DRHM ( [Dream Runners Half
Marathon](http://www.dreamrunners.in/ "Chennai Dream Runners")) was on
1st Sunday of July i.e. 7<sup>th</sup> July 2013. It was the first run
out of Bangalore for me. Last time I registered for Mumbai Standard
Chartered was in 2008 and was gifted with Aarush just few days before
the race :D  Well Aarush is the reason why I can not run on weekdays
morning but he is the catalyst who introduced me to The Pacemakers
running group of Bangalore.

  

 It was a great escape for me from Bangalore and daily routine. a big
thanks to Pamela for supporting me on this. Knew it was not going to be
my best run given the fact I was not practicing at all. The last time
ran was beginning of June after that it was all about running around
household and office work. Working late and on weekends and busy with
Aarush's school and what not. In fact I was so messed up  posted The
Pacemakers  Facebook page that “I am not going” but thanks to Pamela
after an hour  posted  “I will” be going.  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-2013-07-12_1212.png)](../images/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-2013-07-12_1212.png)

  

Thanks to fellow runners a cab was booked and woke up Saturday Morning
at 4:30 and meet them at the gate at 5. We were at Containment Station
by 5:40 where already few fellow runners were waiting, at 6:10 boarded
the Shatabdi. The train journey was fun brought back the memory of
college days where traveled  in a large group for the last time.  It was
fun to be noisy and so many small group chit chat ... it was real
entertaining.

  

As soon reached Chennai the humid heat welcomed us and oh! that smell of
Chennai Central. Thanks to our Tamil friends we moved to the *electrical
(local)*  train platform and took a local train towards hotel, the last
part from station to hotel was long walk . We crossed many ministerial
bungalows as walked from Station to our hotel Raj Palace.

  

Reaching hotel there was enough opinions for lunch venue/cuisine between
30+ hungry stomachs personally stayed back had the same in the hotel and
had a long nap till dark. It was ladies Final at Wimbledon and soon our
room was packed with 20+ people as it is more fun to watch in group.
Everyone thought it would be a big fight between German and French. But
Bartoli finished the tournament quickly in a straight set with ace. Well
she did not beat any big names in this tournament but she beat those who
did ... a dream came true.

  

Dinner was like lunch again many opinion and this time personally went
out to explore little beyond hotel to ‘[Saravana
Bhavan](http://www.saravanabhavan.com/ "Saravana Bhavan")’ the place was
packed as usual and had Paneer Dosa a foolish choice before a long run
tried to mitigate with Dahi Vada (yogurt to neutralize the richness of
Cottage Cheese and oil) . The bus ride back to hotel was long we had we
had a walk mile personally liked it after a big meal.

  
  

Race Day ….
-----------

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-DRHM-santanu.jpg)](../images/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-DRHM-santanu.jpg)Woke
up at 3:30 had a quick shower and realized it is going to be a tough one
as was not feeling good in stomach. We were supposed to be out of hotel
by 4 but there was big time drama by the arranged cab drivers, was part
of the last drop. The sky was dark with cloud and it rained a lot in the
night but still the weather felt hot and very very humid bay around
75~85%  precipitation. Tried to follow Coach’s warm-up session but the
school ground was full of sand and dropped out from the running one. The
race started at 5 and started my stop watch for the first time running
with a watch and that too a GPS enabled,  started with few pacemakers
for the first few kilometers and then started running of my own pace
which  felt very good about. And every Kilometers Garmin showed my speed
and all was looking very nice. Soon say the lead runner coming back and
it was none other than our Nanjundappa. The second runner was at least a
KM behind him. Soon saw many of the Pacemakers taking the turn. But my
run took a downhill  as I struggled from 13KM onwards. I felt there are
too much water in my bladder and I am tired from the humid condition. 
So I walked run and continued till the end and many people crossed me in
that process. The 2 KM I tried again to push myself but by that time I
was out. As soon as I finished the race said bye to pacemakers group and
walked back to hotel. Well it was a long walk but did not want to haggle
with Autos.

  

The race was very organized with lots of police and volunteers and roads
are so good that it does not seem like India. The coarse was also
perfect as we ran along Bay of Bengal and the famous Marina Bay only
humidity was a concern but there is no way we can avoid that in this
time of the year. The sun was completely out as sky was covered with
dark cloud I think it can not be better than this in July in Chennai.

  

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-2013-07-12_1213.png)](../images/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-2013-07-12_1213.png)

Reaching Hotel, freshened up had a big breakfast and by that time all
others also came back. There was a celebration in hotel where someone
walked and got beers  personally skipped beer just after exercise but
the fun was too good to be missed.  The train  journey back was as much
fun but this time everyone was little bit tired. Enjoyed every moment of
this trip and next is one going to be Hyderabad Half Marathon  in late
August. Well the result below is wrong to my it will be in the range of
2:27. In TCS 10k official time made me mad now it is making me smile
:D  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-2013-07-12_1224.png)](../images/2013-07-12-chennai-drhm-2013-07-12_1224.png)
