+++
title = "Blessed"
slug = "2013-08-28-blessed"
published = 2013-08-28T03:52:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "My Diary", "Airtel Hyderabad Marathon", "Nandi Hill", "running",]
+++
**Blessing** is a simple word, but yesterday night (Monday) just before
sleeping I was thinking about the same again and again. Wished for a
gadget to record my thought as I was too tired to use any keyboard or
voice recorder. At times we  wonder and sometime make fun of those award
ceremonies where people on the stage  keep on thanking people around him
or her and sometimes even their dogs. I always love to read the preface
of a book where authors thank about their loved ones and early critics
and business partners. Webby Award (considered as Oscar of Internet)
being techie kept it simple --- as they have "5 word Acceptance
Speeches” rule. Well I was not thinking about those awards and long
speeches but more about the people around me who are allowing me to
cherish my daily life on my own way.

  

After a horrible finish in Bangalore TCS 10K(1hr plus) and Chennai Half
Marathon(2:27 my watch/2:09 race web site). I was determined to be
regular with Coach Kothandapani K C and Pacemakers group. Earlier, was
just running once a week with the group on weekend for long run and that
too bit irregular. Now for one month started to leave home at 4:30 AM to
reach Kanteerava Stadium for Tuesday and Thursday training. Tuesday, is
interval training something I never ever tired before when I  started to
run,  in early 2000. I struggled for weeks but eventually saw some
improvement in me but there is still a lot to go. Thursdays we do tempo
or core strengthening exercise which really helps running as core is the
power house of our body. And couple of Nandi hill runs on the weekend
ensured we were not scared of those flyovers in upcoming Airtel
Hyderabad Half Marathon .

  

In recent time, asked my younger brother to ship a  pair of running
 shoes (4E-wide feet) & Garmin(GPS Watch). These items were personally
carried to Bangalore by friends and colleague from US. These items are
not easily available in India and if they are, they cost an arm and leg.

  

Can not thank enough Pamela for being there like a rock. Now a days,
Pamela rushes faster than **Bolt** on those 2 days as she prepares
breakfast, lunch box  and ensures Aarush and herself is ready with
shower, breakfast and out of home by 07:30 to be at school on time.
 Also,  in recent time lucky to have family members around who
baby-seated Aarush on Saturdays as we are now running on Saturdays for
long run instead of Sundays.

  

The result just speak for itself, finished **Hyderabad Half Marathon**
strong with 2:01:33 on my Garmin. It is my best in recent time and  I am
happy with the split timing for each Kilometers. I was consistent
throughout and had only few kilometers where I ran slower than pace 6.
The last KM I was able to push myself and was around 5:10 pace again ;
where crossed a fellow runner from the running group and felt like
winning the Gold medal. Yes, there was hard work, determination,
strategy which helped me to achieve this. A minute shorter would have
been a icing on the cake. But again, all these could not have been
possible without these people and their belief in me; so feeling really
blessed.

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-food.jpg)](../images/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-food.jpg)

The race was an amazing one, met few finest Indian runners from other
cities. The arrangement of transport, train tickets, hotel arrangement
was too good; again special thanks to Coach and pacemakers team for
that. The post-run lunch was something which I am going to drool and
talk about for months to come. It was a unmarked restaurant named "[Dine
Hill](http://www.dinehill.com/ "Dine Hill")", we were bit hesitant
initially but once went inside for food; seeing the people and their
plates we got a big cultural shock. There were those huge dishes which
are as big as the size of the table and 4-5 people eat together from the
same plate. We asked the restaurant guy if he is going to give us
separate plate; He said YES but added why do not you try this way of
sharing and eating food with friends - *love grows between friends.*  
[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-group.jpg)](../images/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-group.jpg)

[](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-Ksjid4CPl_k/UrG0hS22m9I/AAAAAAAABXs/5T3pBt3TcE0/s1600/AHM2013-group.jpg)[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-run.jpg)](../images/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-run.jpg)

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-map.png)](../images/2013-08-28-blessed-AHM2013-map.png)

  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-08-28-blessed-AHm-2013-pace.png)](../images/2013-08-28-blessed-AHm-2013-pace.png)
