+++
title = "Mangalore"
slug = "2013-03-04-mangalore"
published = 2013-03-04T18:07:00+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Saffron Boutique Hotel", "St. Aloysius Chapel", "Surathkal beach", "Karnataka", "Mangalore", "Maple jetty", "sumersands", "Malpe beach", "Mani Ratnam", "Krishna Temple", "Udupi", "Panambur beach", "Bekal fort", "Arabian sea",]
+++
As [mentioned we split  the travel in
October](http://blog.santm.com/2012/12/24/road-trip-october-2012/ "Travel plan for October 2012")
with a week in between at Bangalore  Durga Pooja.  The destination for
part two had to have sea and beach to cleansing the body and soul.
Personally more of sea person if I have to choose between hills & sea. 
We settled for Mangalore.  We booked for one hotel in the city which had
maximum discount for 3 nights. We tried
[SumerSands](http://www.summer-sands.com/ "Summer Sands Resorts Managlore") the
number-Uno destination for Managlore on travel. Now a resort with
private beach was actually made for Expats community.

  

We started from Bangalore at 5 AM Sharp this time after loading the car
with bags and baggage previous night. We were running low with cash but
opted to find an ATM along the road and left Bangalore in hurry. This
time road to Nilmangala  via Yashwantpur was more pleasant compared to
last week and soon we were on NH 48. Till Kunigal  the road is now a
proper 4 Lanes with tool. We paid toll twice on this part of the road
but I was not complaining as I was doing constant 110/120 Km/Hr. The
road from Hassan was old  undivided two lanes. But as we left early we
did not face any traffic and we were soon near Sakleshpur. It was only
7:45 and I could not believe myself  that we crossed 223 KM in 2:30
hours in Indian road.

  
  
  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2013-03-04-mangalore-mangalore.jpg)](../images/2013-03-04-mangalore-mangalore.jpg)

We stopped for ATM and got the dough, but missed the petrol pump next
door. After breakfast, we wanted to fill fuel as the fuel needle was
touching “E”. but to our surprise we crossed the small town of
Sakleshpur and was already  started  the famous  **Shiradi Ghat**
section. Soon we realized our mobile phones are out of network,
 panicked little bit as there was no way to find out how far is the next
petrol station. Switched off the  AC to gain one/two Kilometers of extra
millage. The road condition detoriated as the pot holes got bigger and
bigger.  The fuel needle was touching “E” but luckily the LED did not
glow constantly. It became ON once or twice. We asked few groups of
truck drivers  and their answer were very promising.  The milestones
were not that comforting as they did not tell us how far we are from Gas
Station.

  

Soon we crossed a forest check post, and we asked how far is the petrol
station and got the best news the next one only couple of KM away. And
just like that the Ghat section ended we filled full tank and headed for
Mangalore. There was long queue for paying 5 Rupees Toll just outside
Mangalore but with that we still managed to reach Managalore city by
11:30.  Nokia’s GPS was very accurate and we reached the major landmark
(Hampankatta Circle) near our  Saffron Boutique Hotel  but from there it
took another 10-15 minutes to reach there.

  

The hotel was great , newly renovated and we had a simple veg. lunch
there. But the temperature and humidity was a killer and we decided for
a nap.

  

After nap we drove towards Ullal ( 10KM south ) from Mangalore for
Summer Sands. We reached soon and it was very hot at 16:00.  They
charged us 100 INR per person at the gate and gave us some snacks
voucher. Aarush was very impatient to get into the water. But after
spending some time in the shade eating the snacks me and Aarush changed
and got into the water. The beach being private was clean but it is 
very rough where no one ventured to go inside deep water,  as back wave
was really dangerous. I needed to keep an constant eye on Aaursh, as few
times he got drifted from his seating place with the wave. He  really 
played a lot;  was not happy to get out.

  

But now when he got out we were worried what to give for dinner as it
was only 19:00.  Dinner was not  ready before 19:30 but with request the
resort was able to serve us food little early and we   had a quick
dinner for ourselves. On the way back, I had to stop in front of a shop
which had street light to check my rear bumper which was making little
sound. The shop owner was  true “Good Samaritan” fixed the bumper for
free using his indigenous skills and technique which really lasted long.

  

Next morning, after breakfast we left for North direction  driving past
Managalore port, Chemical factory and major refinery. We drove to 
Panambur beach first, the beach was OK OK nothing great. There is one
light house with little shacks. After that we crossed  Surathkal
(KREC, Alma matter of my younger brother) according to guidebook
Surathkal beach is one of the clean and hidden gem of Mangalore but we
skipped it for Udupi. Udupi is famous for it Krishna Temple and during
noon you get Prasad as whole meal. Udupi and its cuisine can be found
across India famous for vegetarian  dishes.  The direction to temple was
clear but as we approached, the road got narrower and parking became
difficult. After parking the car in a designated parking lot we walked
 to reach the temple. The Sun was a real killer. There was some queue in
the temple but not very long. After paying our homage to Lord Krisha we
were waiting for the special Prasad and after 40 minutes or so
understood there was no Prasad that day as it was ‘Ekadashi (eleventh
day of moon calendar).

  

We came out of the temple and walked back to car and not sure what to do
next. We were hungry but the Sun and heat suggested stay inside only. So
after deliberation  headed for Malpe beach. We missed the sign for beach
and took a detour around Maple jetty oh! boy there was the smell of
fish.  There was one nice big resort called Paradise. We stopped there
had a long lunch intentionally and ordered desert and cold drinks in
steps just to kill time we almost sat there for 3 hours. At last around
4 headed for the beach.

  

The beach was crowded but soon we realized this has one of the best
‘white –sand’ we have been to.  The waves were more gentle compared to
its southern cousin and there were many adventure activities going on.
You can go up in the parachute ride, the banana ride and water jet. Me
and Aarush enjoyed a long stay in the warm water.  Once it started to
get dark we left the beach and headed towards the car. We could not even
leave Malpe when the thunderstorm hit us. It was heavy  rain with
lighting. It caused havoc on the road. We continued driving and probably
the worst rain driving for me. Ultimately,  stopped and pull over as it
was little scary to drive behind red lights of other car with no
visibility of the general road.  But any way we could not stop for ever
- so after 10/15 minutes started and continued driving.  We reached a
rain soaked Mangalore quite late.

  

Took an Auto from Hotel after getting fresh and headed  for a small fast
food place called “**Hot Bitez**” Oppsite  Canara College on Jail Road.
We picked this place from [a blog with a catchy
title](http://www.the3hungrymen.com/ "Three Hungry Men") .  Well, the
food was OK OK  with fries and burger you can be never be wrong with
Aarush, On our way back we enjoyed the festival of “Dusherra rally”
where children to adult dress up like tiger and they are accompanied by
drums and music. It is like a carnival. They start from the city center
and go around. The party starts around midnight and last till wee hours
of the morning. We were tired to enjoy this for long. But it was a shame
of not having DSLR with us to capture the color and expression at that
time.

  

Next day, after a breakfast we drove down south again and this time we
drove for 70 KM south and visit the famous Bekal fort in Kerala. The
fort was built around 1650 over 40 acres of land. In recent time it got
prominent when famous director Mani Ratnam shoot his mega film
**Bombay** in early nineties.  A very beautiful fort with many watch
towers, with  breath taking view of Arabian sea as we walked along the
parameters.

  

It was a holiday on the occasion of **Id,**  complete Kerala was closed.
We made a big fool of ourselves by not having food at Bekal Fort before
leaving from there. We reached  **Summersand** again and had a late
lunch there. After spending time on beach we opted to leave early and
have a proper dinner in Mangalore city. We asked our hotel reception to
suggest a Mangalorian restaurant and they suggested one. We went by auto
and the place was nice, crowded with families waiting for their turn. We
were really hungry and ordered  lots of food. The food came after some
time but it was so spicy that Pamela who normally handles hot and spicy
food well could not handle too. It was a disaster in simple words,
Aarush was very sleepy and we could not force him much.

  

Next day, was our last day in Mangalore and we started slow. We visited
the famous ‘[**St. Aloysius
Chapel**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St._Aloysius_Chapel "St. Aloysius Chapel")”
which is inside a educational campus. There are beautiful stained glass
and the floor is simply awesome with mosaic. We went by auto and after
spending sometime went to picture butterfly in near by Tagore park.
After that we just walked back towards our hotel . We stopped at the
famous [Ideal Ice
Cream Parlor](http://www.idealicecream.in/ "Ideal Ice Cream") and tried
 their famous “**Gadbad**”. Aaursh really liked it as it was his
breakfast and soon we ordered the **Dilkush,  **after the big ice-creams
we headed back to our room, packed our things, payed the bill and
started for Bangalore.

  

This time our tank was full when we cross Ghat section but as we crossed
it around mid-day there were traffic and driving uphill had its own fun
on those curves. Just after crossing Chikmanglur town we stopped for
lunch. It was very crowded. Post lunch we drove straight to Bangalore
without any stop.
