+++
title = "A Weekend - supposed to be perfect   "
slug = "2014-03-18-a-weekend-supposed-to-be-perfect"
published = 2014-03-18T15:13:00.001000+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Aarush", "parenting",]
+++
Aarush reminded me it's  Friday,  at breakfast table and that he should
have the I-Pad with charger for the Weekend; somehow he remembers when
it is Friday very well for his age. Well the weekend was supposed to be
a just another weekend on the calendar with no specific plan. There were
some weekend work/changes/releases at office but not a major ones.
Nowadays my running group is doing long runs on Saturday instead of
Sunday. And I thought to myself if I start sharp at 5 I should be able
to  finish by 7:15  and back home before 7:30 so that I can take care of
Aarush.

  

On Friday I headed to bed early put the alarm for 4:15 and I left home
for GKVK at 4:30. It was bit spooky to reach there and be alone in the
dark. The only street light was working was around gate of NCBS. So did
few short rounds of quick jogging on the road luckily there were no
stray dogs. As I was finishing up my warm up exercises one by one my
running group members started to show up. Without much time at hand I
started running alone in the dark. I was thinking the faster ones will
cross me any time after 15-20 minutes and then the others will follow.
But saw my running buddies almost when I completed first loop and was at
9.8+ KM mark. I joined them back and to complete the remaining part
without a break as I was carrying a small water bottle. Soon the second
loop almost started to get complete and finished 20K in 1:50. 

  

At 20KM mark reached back to car and had little water break and then
started the last 3KM. Now the real challenge was supposed to be faster
by 1 minute for the last 3 KMs. I did OK and finished them within target
shared by coach. It was 7:12 and with that headed back home. By the time
I reached home Pamela already left for work and our maid and cook were
busy working. Aarush was still asleep. Complete the workout with some
stretching exercise; it was a real achievement to run 20+3KM within the
plan.

  

After that had a quite morning, Aarush woke up, we completed shower,
breakfast &  homework. He played little bit of games on Ipad while I
uploaded my running details in GARMIN. Around 11ish dropped Aarush to
Abacus class this was his 3rd session, something to keep him away from
TV and IPAD on the weekends. 

  

Picked Aarush and Pamela around 1PM, after lunch had a nice nap and
whith my best try Aarush did not slept. But he was ready for some rounds
of roller blades within our apartment complex. It was kind of boring so
called even friends with a hope if they are free;  will catch up with
them.

  

After 9:30 in the night there was some glitch at work so spent some time
on that issue ; was thinking to join Nike Run Club with Pamela on Sunday
Morning. 

  

Sunday morning the alarm went off on correct time but two of us were
lazy to go out - a perfect Sunday morning finished Breakfast late then
completed household chores. Had lunch on time followed by a nap. I
really felt good after a long time that got a restful weekend. 

  

The following day being Holi – festival of colors. There was some
celebration within our complex ; Pamela and Aarush stayed there while I
came home to prepare dinner.

  

After 30 minutes or so Aarush came back home and said he is not going to
have dinner and going for sleep. Got little irritated with this as how
he can skip his dinner and go to sleep; called Pamela and spoke about
the same. So after 3 min (precise time from phone call log) I went
inside and asked Aarush to change his dress and I washed his hand and
face. While pat drying his hand my almost perfect weekend came to an
abrupt halt and left me jolted on seeing **<span
style="color: red;">Aarush left  hand was completely broken and it was
twisted. </span>**

  

I ran got some first aid to support  his hand and called Pamela again
informing her to return immediately. And we rushed to ER of hospital
next door. 

  

Everyone at hospital was shocked that how this 6 year old was not crying
or howling and showing a brave expressionless face. They called the
on-call orthopedic and by the time completed his first round of X-ray.

  

The only sound that came from him was when they applied traction to
straighten his hand. Again another round of x-ray to confirm whether the
setting was OK and finally we came home. 

  

Well today is only Tuesday and tomorrow evening we need to visit
hospital again for another round of x-ray to confirm all is OK before
they put a complete hard cast on his hand for 6 weeks. 

  
Today, I feel bad not for his broken hand but for hiding this incident
because of the fear of being scolded . Looks like I failed completely
and still trying to find an answer what triggered him to behave like
that as on the same evening I have spent a good time on the play ground
with him before leaving for home to prepare his favorite dinner. 

the x
