+++
title = "Tanflora -- Our own Keukenhof around Bangalore "
slug = "2014-03-29-tanflora-our-own-keukenhof-around-bangalore"
published = 2014-03-29T17:29:00.002000+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = []
+++
[![](../images/2014-03-29-tanflora-our-own-keukenhof-around-bangalore-Tenaflora.jpg)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/sets/72157643521533824/)

Got an invite to visit a Rose farm from one of our running group member.
Though this trip was long due it was like now or never as the season for
roses almost comes to end with HOT Indian summer. From Bangalore we need
to go via Sarjapur, Bagalur in Housr District of TamilNadu. Google name
is Amuthugondapalli. Due to exam time many people could not come but it
was still a sizable group of 30. 

  

Myself and Aarush joined another dad & son in car-pool to drive down
there. Both the boys of same age became better and bitter friends
quickly. The road was a long one for us as we have to travel on ORR to
Sarjapur Junction and pass Decathlon and Sarjapur village till we
reached Baglur Village. From there we took a right turn next to Police
station and drive for 7+ KM to reach a place with a sign for Tenaflora.
We were the first one to reach and as soon as Aarush and Abhinav got out
of the car started to run and explore the vast open space. 

  

Soon we were joined with our hostess and other group members. She
briefed us on a quick background the farm and how it works and we stared
the guided tour. Roses are pretty but they needs lots of care and best
resources to grow. The green houses are computer controlled to ensure
the right level of temperature and humidity is maintained. The water
that needs to be filtered and ensured right level of pH and EC
maintained. If you are wondering what is this EC it is Electrical
Conductivity of water may be we studied somewhere long time ago. There
were those huge cold storage where unsorted and sorted roses are kept
once they are picked form the green-house. The whole process is very
tedious and labor intensive just like tea. Like tea garden ladies work
with their delicate hands for sorting and ensuring right set of roses
are packed together. The global standard is of 20 rose stems in one. We
completed the post plucking production from un-sorted roses to a final
packing and ready to be shipped in those big card-board box.

  

After that we had a stupendous lunch spread before us. The outside
temperature was very hot but after a rest we walked towards green house.
It was really hot out there. Inside greenhouse it was a great relief and
it reminded us Shilshila. Growing up in India in 70/80s you it is kind
of marked in your memory with permanent marker. Here we saw how they
take care of each buds right from when they are in the size of peanuts. 

  

The best was kept for the last each of us were given a rose bouquet of
different colors. Hope these pictures tell you the story better than me.
