+++
title = "Airtel Hyderabad Half Marathon 2014"
slug = "2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014"
published = 2014-09-02T14:30:00.002000+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Airtel Hyderabad Marathon", "running",]
+++
[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-10409452_10202755004587202_5092241805891098295_n.jpg)](../images/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-10409452_10202755004587202_5092241805891098295_n.jpg)

After Chennai DRHM event the event I signed up for was Airtel Hyderabad
Half Marathon. This run is little special to me as received my first
ever finisher T-shirt last year as a proof of my improvement in running.
Also there is the big culinary charm of Dine-hill and Karachi biscuits
as post run celebration.

  

Booked myself a return flight as soon as the dates for AHM 2014 was out.
Few of my fellow runners also opted for the same as soon as I posted the
same in our FaceBook group.

  

The initial count was around 40 people going from our group alone this
year but pre-race almost half of them dropped out due to various
reasons. Myself was in worst running form as I got a Viral beginning of
August which kept me away from any physical activity for 2 weeks. Just
before the race week restarted running and was not even in a position to
complete an easy pace 20km before the race week.

  

The train journey on Garib-Rath was wonderful with all the fellow
runners. This time I did not took any food for myself for own dinner but
there was so much homemade food on the train from others. I did not get
much sleep over night but it was OK.

  

We got down at Begaumpet railway station and another running group
(BHUKMP) from Bangalore joined us. This time we were staying together in
a super nice hotel called
[**Marigold**](http://www.marigoldhotels.com/). It was a chatty walk
from the railway station to the hotel. Hotel staffs were super-efficient
as they managed to checked-in 60+ runners with ease and then we had a
big breakfast. I had lots of healthy stuff lots of curd, fruits and
muesli. 

  

We went to expo from hotel thanks to Uber for free ride ;)

  

The expo was mixed bag most counters were well-organized and we were
handed our running BIB and goody bag promptly but few were not so lucky.
Met with lots of great runners with full ‘Josh’ (enthusiasm) whom came
from across the country. Realized there will be no finisher t-shirt for
the top runners from Nike. In a way it took off lots of pressure from me
as I was not really ready for a race yet.

  

After returning to the hotel I declined to join the group lunch as every
one headed to [**Paradise**](http://www.paradisefoodcourt.com/) for the
famous biryani and ‘qubani ka meetha’

  

After watching TV and some nap I got up in the evening and joined the
group again for a early dinner. Had a light dinner with lots of Dal
(lenthil) and curd.

  

**Race-day :** Woke up around 4AM, had a quick shower and had two banana
and couple of dates. Dressed myself for a hot and sunny day. Again
thanks to Uber reached the starting point of Necklace road. By the time
we finished warm-up could already feel it was going to be a very hot
day. 

  

I ensured to take water break at 2KM and 6KM early on. Thanks to Metro
work there was some shades from those safety partitions. But soon they
were also gone. I was running alone all along as could not find any one
with a similar pace to run along. Most of the time I was crossing
someone but there were few who crossed me along the whole path. 

  

As I ran this race before I was mentally strong and was able to map the
course mentally and pushed myself for the best. I was also ensure that I
was enjoying the run I ensured to thank many volunteers and give them
high-five as I crossed them The volunteers specially **[Waste
Warriors](http://www.wastewarriors.org/)** did a superb job of ensuring
the street remains clutter free. I had my Glue-Gel around 11KM mark I
did not tried any pre-race gel. 

  

All was going fine and I knew the last fly-over will be a killer and it
really killed me. It was the worst as I almost lost the battle with it
18 KM was my slowest when I reviewed my Garmin later. I tried my best to
push myself as I was approaching G. M. C. Balayogi Athletic Stadium. But
to my surprise the entry to the stadium was changed from last year and I
was completely hear-broken as I did not have any energy in myself to
push further. Somewhere I knew it was only 500m to complete the race but
I also not sure if it was 700m as did not want to victim of heat,
dehydration and another DNF at the last meters.

  

I did what I best could and finished the race at 1:50:29. It was huge
improvement compared to last year the result below is the testimony. The
heat and sun was a killer this year and my face tells that. 

  

In a way very happy that I finished strong but on the other hand I
wished I had little extra energy and strategy to finish the same around
1:48 and wished to run along someone as it was a boring city roads and
flyovers.

  

It was the last outstation race of the year 2014-15 for me. 

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-10511670_268741789999458_8654454587054630247_o.jpg)](../images/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-10511670_268741789999458_8654454587054630247_o.jpg)

  

  

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-AHM_2013.png)](../images/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-AHM_2013.png)

[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-AHM_2014.png)](../images/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-AHM_2014.png)

  

[![](../images/thumbnails/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-10541065_268741833332787_300502733521193439_o.jpg)](../images/2014-09-02-airtel-hyderabad-half-marathon-2014-10541065_268741833332787_300502733521193439_o.jpg)
