+++
title = "Cochin Full Marathon 2015"
slug = "2015-11-25-cochin-full-marathon-2015"
published = 2015-11-25T15:27:00.001000+05:30
author = "Santanu Misra"
tags = [ "Kerela", "Travel", "running",]
+++
#### Pre-Race Day

[![](../images/2015-11-25-cochin-full-marathon-2015-Cochin.jpg)](https://www.flickr.com/photos/santm/albums/72157661689219675)

The day started early, we get out Cochin Club today and part our our
ways for some time. While Pamela & Aarush goes back to Bangalore on
Saturday itself I stay back for the big run on Sunday.

  

They had a train to catch around 9 from ERS. There was not a single auto
around so had to walk and get one from Ferry station and as usual the
price asked and agreed is way more than normal,

  

My running friends already reached from Bangalore while some checked in
to Hotel other went ahead to Alleppey to check run route for December
MTR run. There was many small plans and phone calls in the morning about
how we meet up and spend our day, At the end I came to the hotel in
Wellington Island around 10. After 11 we start from hotel for BIB
collection which is another end of 

  

Ernakulam. The bus ride was very long and memorable one not a kind that
you suggest. We were swinging …. the drives is rash and the roads are
narrow and there is Metro construction going on forever.

  

The BIB collection was happening inside a newly opened mall. And we came
to know there are not going to many runners around 200 registered for FM
and another 800 for HM, After usual chit-chat with fellow runners and
pictures we headed for food. We were told and warned about the bad road
conditions due to rain and that might impact bare-foot runners most.
Organizers were also offering early start at 3AM. But the regular start
of 4 AM itself was too early for my standard.

  

While walking to the mall from bus stop spotted the restaurant ‘Dhe
Puttu’ a place Pamela wanted to go but we did not. While entering the
place we liked it but it usual a clean nice restaurant. But when they
served the ‘Sulaimani Tea’ things changed drastically for good. We all
must had 7/8 cups of tea and some may be more. It seems this restaurant
belongs to one of Malaalam actor Dileep. We all loved the food. And the
best part we were full. The puttu is very filling and restaurant guys
service was excellent. Post lunch we again walked to bus stop and got a
bus to our hotel. 

  

Pamela and Aarush Bangalore reached Bangalore safely in the evening.
They mentioned about the rain and cold weather over there. Personally
had a shower and nap in the afternoon. But that killed by sleep in the
night as I could barely sleep. 

  

#### Race Day

  

Woke up at 3:15 or so and left hotel at 3:30 in Bus (thanks to soles of
Cochin) for the venue. From our group few were doing FM and most were
doing HM. In hotel met Balaji, one runners from Chennai who is of my
kind of running speed. But he has ran many FM including last month
Bangalore on in 4 hours where I took 14 more minutes. It was 3 in the
beginning but soon around 6 KM mark I think we lost Patrick and me and
Balali continued together. We were running side by side but once the
road narrowed we started to follow each other. We completed the half way
mark before 2 hours and headed back and crossed 30K around 2 hr 45
minutes or so. But once we were back to the Wellington Island we met up
with the many slow HM and Family fun (5K) runners. While they had a turn
to complete their race we had to continue on an isolated roads between
shipyards and godowns. It was the last KMs that was very dull and
boring. And now the gap between me and Balaji increased as I really lost
the enthusiasm . Thankfully one Hyderabad runner came to rescue around
last 500m to give company. And the race got over in 4 hours 7 minutes.
The best part not much walking and stopping in the last 5 KMs but there
is way to improve. May be I shouldI think I have 50KM Ultra to run while
running those 5KM. 

  

Post-race as usual Bangalore runner specially Pacemakers were on the
podium. And very thankful to two gentlemen who are working in Dubai but
avid runners gave us lift to Hotel. We checkout and headed towards MG
road and ended up going to Grand Hotel for lunch. This is the same place
where we as a family met our Cochin host Gulshan and his family on
Tuesday for dinner.

  

The service was not so great as we were a Bhukkad Gang. Rest of the
journey back to Bangalore was fun filled with lots of chitchat which can
be shared here ;)
